<style>
p {text-align:justify}
li {text-align:justify}
blockquote.note {
	background-color:#E0E0E0;
	padding-left: 15px;
	padding-right: 15px;
	padding-top: 1px;
	padding-bottom: 1px;
}
span.note:before {
  content: "[Note: ";
  font-style: italic;
}
span.note:after {
  content: " -- end note]";
  font-style: italic;
}
span.ednote:before {
  content: "[Editorial note: ";
  font-style: italic;
}
span.ednote:after {
  content: " -- end note]";
  font-style: italic;
}
span.ednote, span.ednote * {
  color:blue !important;
  margin-top: 0em;
  margin-bottom: 0em;
}
ins, ins * {color:#00A000 !important}
del, del * {color:#A00000 !important}
div.ins, div.ins * {
	color:#00A000 !important;
	text-decoration-line: none;
}
dfn {
	font-style: italic;
	font-weight: bold;
}
</style>

D3164:
Improving diagnostics for sender expressions
============================================

<div>
<dl>
<dt><strong>Authors:</strong></dt>
<dd><a href="mailto:eric.niebler@gmail.com">Eric Niebler</a></dd>

<dt><strong>Source:</strong></dt>
<dd><a href="https://github.com/ericniebler/wg21/blob/main/P3164/P3164R0.md">GitHub</a></dd>

<dt><strong>Issue tracking:</strong></dt>
<dd><a href="https://github.com/ericniebler/wg21/issues">GitHub</a></dd>

<dt><strong>Project:</strong></dt>
<dd>ISO/IEC JTC1/SC22/WG21 14882: Programming Language — C++</dd>

<dt><strong>Audience:</strong></dt>
<dd>LEWG</dd>
</dl>
</div>


Synopsis
--------

This paper aims to improve the user experience of the sender framework by moving
the diagnosis of invalid sender expression earlier, when the expression is
constructed, rather than later when it is connected to a receiver. A trivial
change to the sender adaptor algorithms makes it possible for the majority of
sender expressions to be type-checked early.


Executive Summary
-----------------

Below are the specific changes this paper proposes in order to make early
type-checking of sender expressions possible:

1. Define a "non-dependent sender" to be one whose completions are knowable
   without an environment.

2. Extend the awaitable helper concepts to support querying a type whether it is
   awaitable in an arbitrary coroutine (without knowing the promise type). For
   example, anything that implements the awaiter interface (`await_ready`,
   `await_suspend`, `await_resume`) is awaitable in any coroutine, and should
   function as a non-dependent sender.

3. Add support for calling `get_completion_signatures` without an environment
   argument.

4. Change the definition of the `completion_signatures_of_t` alias template to
   support querying a sender's non-dependent signatures, if such exist.

5. Require the sender adaptor algorithms to preserve the "non-dependent sender"
   property  wherever possible.

6. Add "Mandates:" paragraphs to the sender adaptor algorithms to require them
   to hard-error when passed non-dependent senders that fail type-checking.


Problem Description
-------------------

Type-checking a sender expression involves computing its completion signatures.
In the general case, a sender's completion signatures may depend on the
receiver's execution environment. For example, the sender:

```c+
read(get_stop_token)
```

... when connected to a receiver `rcvr` and started, will fetch the stop token from
the receiver's environment and then pass it back to the receiver, as follows:

```c++
auto st = get_stop_token(get_env(rcvr));
set_value(move(rcvr), move(st));
```

Without an execution environment, the sender `read(get_stop_token)` doesn't know
how it will complete.

The type of the environment is known rather late, when the sender is connected
to a receiver. This is often far from where the sender expression was
constructed. If there are type errors in a sender expression, those errors will
be diagnosed far from where the error was made, which makes it harder to know
the source of the problem.

It would be far preferable to issue diagnostics while *constructing* the sender
rather than waiting until it is connected to a receiver.

### Non-dependent senders

The majority of senders have completions that don't depend on the receiver's
environment. Consider `just(42)` -- it will complete with the integer `42` no
matter what receiver it is connected to. If a so-called "non-dependent" sender
advertised itself as such, then sender algorithms could eagerly type-check the
non-dependent senders they are passed, giving immediate feedback to the
developer.

For example, this expression should be immediately rejected:

```c++
just(42) | then([](int* p) { return *p; })
```


The `then` algorithm can reject `just(42)` and the above lambda because the
arguments don't match: an integer cannot be passed to a function expecting an
`int*`. The `then` algorithm can do that type-checking only when it knows the
input sender is non-dependent. It couldn't, for example, do any type-checking if
the input sender were `read(get_stop_token)` instead of `just(42)`.

And in fact, some senders *do* advertise themselves as non-dependent, although
P2300 does not currently do anything with that extra information. A sender can
declare its completions signatures with a nested type alias, as follows:

```c++
template <class T>
struct just_sender {
  T value;

  using completion_signatures =
    std::execution::completion_signatures<
      std::execution::set_value_t(T)
    >;

  // ...
};
```


Senders whose completions depend on the execution environment cannot declare
their completion signatures this way. Instead, they must define a
`get_completion_signatures` customization that takes the environment as an
argument.

We can use this extra bit of information to define a `non_dependent_sender`
concept as follows:

```c++
template <class Sndr>
concept non_dependent_sender =
  sender<Sndr> &&
  requires {
    typename remove_cvref_t<Sndr>::completion_signatures;
  };
```

A sender algorithm can use this concept to conditionally dispatch to code that
does eager type-checking.


Suggested Solution
------------------

The authors suggests that this notion of non-dependent senders be given fuller
treatment in P2300. Conditionally defining the nested typedef in generic sender
adaptors -- which may adapt either dependent or non-dependent senders -- is
awkward and verbose. We suggest instead to support calling
`get_completion_signatures` either with _or without_ an execution environment.
This makes it easier for authors of sender adaptors to preserve the
"non-dependent" property of the senders it wraps.

We suggest that a similar change be made to the `completion_signatures_of_t`
alias template. When instantiated with only a sender type, it should compute the
non-dependent completion signatures, or be ill-formed.

Design Considerations
---------------------

### Why have two ways for non-dependent senders to publish their completion signatures?

The addition of support for a customization of `get_completion_signatures` that
does not take an environment obviates the need to support the use of a nested
`::completion_signatures` alias. In a class, this:

```c++
auto get_completion_signatures() ->
	std::execution::completion_signatures<
		std::execution::set_value_t(T)
	>;
```

... works just as well as this:

```c++
using completion_signatures =
	std::execution::completion_signatures<
		std::execution::set_value_t(T)
	>;
```

Without a doubt, we could simplify the design by dropping support for the
latter. This paper suggests retaining it, though. For something like the
`just_sender`, providing type metadata with an alias is more idiomatic and less
surprising, in the author's opinion, than defining a function and putting the
metadata in the return type. That is the case for keeping the `typename
Sndr::completion_signatures` form.

The case for adding the `sndr.get_completion_signatures()` form is that it makes
it simpler for sender adaptors such as `then_sender` to preserve the
"non-dependent" property of the senders it adapts. For instance, one could
define `then_sender` like:

```c++
template <class Sndr, class Fun>
struct then_sender {
	Sndr sndr_;
	Fun fun_;

	template <class... Env>
	auto get_completion_signatures(const Env&... env) const
	  -> some-computed-type;

    //....
};
```

... and with this one member function support both dependent and non-dependent
senders while preserving the "non-dependent-ness" of the adapted sender.


Proposed Wording
----------------

<span class="ednote">The wording in this section assumes the adoption of
[P2855R1](https://wg21.link/P2855R1).</span>


Change [async.ops]/13 as follows:


<blockquote>

13. A completion signature is a function type that describes a completion
    operation. An asychronous operation has a finite set of possible completion
    signatures corresponding to the completion operations that the asynchronous
    operation potentially evaluates ([basic.def.odr]). For a completion function
    `set`, receiver `rcvr`, and pack of arguments `args`, let `c` be the
    completion operation `set(rcvr, args...)`, and let `F` be the function type
    `decltype(auto(set))(decltype((args))...)`. A completion signature `Sig` is
    associated with `c` if and only if `MATCHING-SIG(Sig, F)` is `true`
    ([exec.general]). Together, a sender type and an environment type `Env`
    determine the set of completion signatures of an asynchronous operation that
    results from connecting the sender with a receiver that has an environment
    of type `Env`. <span class="note">The type of the receiver does not affect
    an asychronous operation’s completion signatures, only the type of the
    receiver’s environment.</span> <ins>A sender type whose completion
    signatures are knowable independent of an execution environment is known as
    a <dfn>non-dependent sender</dfn>.
</blockquote>


Change [exec.syn] as follows:

<blockquote><pre><code>
...

template&lt;class Sndr, class<ins>\...</ins> Env <del>= empty_env</del>>
  concept sender_in = <em>see below</em>;
\...

template&lt;class Sndr, class<ins>\...</ins> Env <del>= empty_env</del>>
  requires sender_in&lt;Sndr, Env<ins>\...</ins>>
using completion_signatures_of_t = call-result-t&lt;get_completion_signatures_t, Sndr, Env<ins>\...</ins>>;
\...
</code></pre></blockquote>


Change [exec.snd.concepts] as follows:

<blockquote><pre><code>
template&lt;class Sndr, class<ins>...</ins> Env <del>= empty_env</del>>
  concept sender_in =
    sender&lt;Sndr> &&
	<ins>(sizeof...(Env) <= 1)</ins>
    <ins>(</ins>queryable&lt;Env><ins> &&...)</ins> &&
    requires (Sndr&& sndr, Env&&<ins>...</ins> env) {
      { get_completion_signatures(
           std::forward&lt;Sndr>(sndr), std::forward&lt;Env>(env)<ins>...</ins>) }
        -> <em>valid-completion-signatures</em>;
    };
</code></pre></blockquote>

<span class="ednote">this subtly changes the meaning of `sender_in<Sndr>`.
Before the change, it tests whether a type is a sender when used specifically
with the environment `empty_env`. After the change, it tests whether a type is a
non-dependent sender. This is a stronger assertion to make about the type; it
says that this type is a sender *regardless of the environment*. One can still
get the old behavior with `sender_in<Sndr, empty_env>`.</span>

Change [exec.awaitables] as follows:

<blockquote>

1. The sender concepts recognize awaitables as senders. For this clause
   ([exec]), an ***awaitable*** is an expression that would be well-formed as
   the operand of a `co_await` expression within a given context.

2. For a subexpression `c`, let `GET-AWAITER(c, p)` be expression-equivalent to
   the series of transformations and conversions applied to `c` as the operand
   of an *await-expression* in a coroutine, resulting in lvalue `e` as described
   by [expr.await]/3.2-4, where `p` is an lvalue referring to the coroutine’s
   promise type, `Promise`. This includes the invocation of the promise type’s
   `await_transform` member if any, the invocation of the `operator co_await`
   picked by overload resolution if any, and any necessary implicit conversions
   and materializations. <ins>Let `GET-AWAITER(c)` be expression-equivalent to
   `GET-AWAITER(c, q)` where `q` is an lvalue of an unspecified empty class type
   *`none-such`* that lacks an `await_transform` member, and where
   `coroutine_handle<none-such>` behaves as `coroutine_handle<void>`.</ins>

3. Let *`is-awaitable`* be the following exposition-only concept:

	<pre><code>
	template&lt;class T>
	concept <em>await-suspend-result</em> = <em>see below</em>;
	
	template&lt;class A, class<ins>...</ins> Promise>
	concept <em>is-awaiter</em> = <em>// exposition only</em>
	  requires (A& a, coroutine_handle&lt;Promise<ins>...</ins>> h) {
	    a.await_ready() ? 1 : 0;
	    { a.await_suspend(h) } -> <em>await-suspend-result</em>;
	    a.await_resume();
	  };
	
	template&lt;class C, class<ins>...</ins> Promise>
	concept <em>is-awaitable</em> =
	  requires (C (*fc)() noexcept, Promise&<ins>...</ins> p) {
	    { GET-AWAITER(fc(), p<ins>...</ins>) } -> is-awaiter&lt;Promise<ins>...</ins>>;
	  };
	</code></pre>

	`await-suspend-result<T>` is `true` if and only if one of the following is `true`:

	* `T` is `void`, or
	* `T` is `bool`, or
	* `T` is a specialization of `coroutine_handle`.
	
4. For a subexpression `c` such that `decltype((c))` is type `C`, and an lvalue
   `p` of type `Promise`, `await-result-type<C, Promise>` denotes the type
   `decltype(GET-AWAITER(c, p).await_resume())` <ins>, and
   `await-result-type<C>` denotes the type
   `decltype(GET-AWAITER(c).await_resume())`</ins>.
</blockquote>


Change [exec.getcomplsigs] as follows:

<blockquote>

1. `get_completion_signatures` is a customization point object. Let `sndr` be an
   expression such that `decltype((sndr))` is `Sndr` <del>, and let `env` be an
   expression such that `decltype((env))` is `Env`</del>. <ins>Then
   `get_completion_aignatures(sndr)` is expression-equivalent to:</ins>

	1. <ins>`remove_cvref_t<Sndr>::completion_signatures{}` if that expression is
		 well-formed,</ins>

	2. <ins>Otherwise, `decltype(sndr.get_completion_signatures()){}` if that
		 expression is well-formed,</ins>

	3. <ins>Otherwise, if `is-awaitable<Sndr>` is `true`, then:</ins>

		<ins>

			completion_signatures<
			  SET-VALUE-SIG(await-result-type<Sndr>), // see [exec.snd.concepts]
			  set_error_t(exception_ptr),
			  set_stopped_t()>{}
		</ins>

	4. <ins>Otherwise, `get_completion_signatures(sndr)` is ill-formed.</ins>

2. <ins>Let `env` be an expression such that `decltype((env))` is `Env`.</ins>
   Then `get_completion_signatures(sndr, env)` is expression-equivalent to:

	1. <ins>`remove_cvref_t<Sndr>::completion_signatures{}` if that expression is
	   well-formed,</ins>

	2. <ins>Otherwise, `decltype(sndr.get_completion_signatures(env)){}` if that
	   expression is well-formed,</ins>

    <!-- -->
	2. <del>Otherwise, `remove_cvref_t<Sndr>::completion_signatures{}` if that
	   expression is well-formed,</del>

	3. Otherwise, if `is-awaitable<Sndr, env-promise<Env>>` is `true`, then:

			completion_signatures<
			  SET-VALUE-SIG(await-result-type<Sndr, env-promise<Env>>), // see [exec.snd.concepts]
			  set_error_t(exception_ptr),
			  set_stopped_t()>{}

	4. Otherwise, `get_completion_signatures(sndr, env)` is ill-formed.

3. <ins>If `get_completion_signatures(sndr)` is well-formed and its type denotes
   a specialization of the `completion_signatures` class template, then `Sndr`
	 is a non-dependent sender type ([async.ops]).</ins>

4. <ins>Given a pack of subexpressions `e`, the expression
   `get_completion_signatures(e...)` is ill-formed if `sizeof...(e)` is less
   than `1` or greater than `2`.

5. <ins>If `completion_signatures_of_t<Sndr>` and
   `completion_signatures_of_t<Sndr, Env>` are both well-formed, they shall
   denote the same set of completion signatures, disregarding the order of
   signatures and rvalue reference qualification of arguments.</ins>

6. Let `rcvr` be an rvalue receiver of type `Rcvr`, and let `Sndr` be the type
   of a sender such that `sender_in<Sndr, env_of_t<Rcvr>>` is true. Let
   `Sigs...` be the template arguments of the `completion_signatures`
   specialization named by `completion_signatures_of_t<Sndr, env_of_t<Rcvr>>`.
   Let `CSO` be a completion function. If sender `Sndr` or its operation state
   cause the expression `CSO(rcvr, args...)` to be potentially evaluated
   ([basic.def.odr]) then there shall be a signature `Sig` in `Sigs...` such
   that `MATCHING-SIG(tag_t<CSO>(decltype(args)...), Sig)` is `true`
   ([exec.general]).
</blockquote>

To [exec.adapt.general], add a paragraph (8) as follows:

<blockquote><div class="ins">

8. Unless otherwise specified, an adaptor whose child senders are all
   non-dependent ([async.ops]) is itself non-dependent. This requirement applies
   to any function that is selected by the implementation of the sender adaptor.

</div></blockquote>


Change [exec.then] as follows:

<blockquote>

2. The names `then`, `upon_error`, and `upon_stopped` denote customization point
   objects. <ins>For `then`, `upon_error`, and `upon_stopped`, let *`set-cpo`*
   be `set_value`, `set_error`, and `set_stopped` respectively.</ins> Let the
   expression *`then-cpo`* be one of `then`, `upon_error`, or `upon_stopped`.
   For subexpressions `sndr` and `f`, let `Sndr` be `decltype((sndr))` and let
   `F` be the decayed type of `f`. If `Sndr` does not satisfy sender, or `F`
   does not satisfy *`movable-value`*, <code><em>then-cpo</em>(sndr, f)</code>
   is ill-formed.

<div class="ins">

3. Otherwise, let *`invoke-result`* be an alias template such that
	<code><em>invoke-result</em>&lt;Ts\...></code> denotes the type
	`invoke_result_t<F, Ts...>`. If `sender_in<Sndr>` is `true` and
	<code><em>gather-signatures</em>&lt;tag_t&lt;<em>set-cpo</em>>,
	completion_signatures_of_t&lt;Sndr>, <em>invoke-result</em>,
	<em>type-list</em>></code> is ill-formed, the program is ill-formed.
</div>

4. Otherwise, the expression <code><em>then-cpo</em>(sndr, f)</code> is
   expression-equivalent to:.....</span>

5. <del>For `then`, `upon_error`, and `upon_stopped`, let *`set-cpo`* be `set_value`, `set_error`, and `set_stopped` respectively.</del> The exposition-only class template *`impls-for`* ([exec.snd.general]) is specialized for *`then-cpo`* as follows:....
<div>


</blockquote>




TODO: More


Acknowlegments
--------------

We owe our thanks to Ville Voutilainen who first noticed that most sender expressions could be type-checked eagerly but are not by P2300R8.
