Synopsis
--------

This paper aims to improve the user experience of the sender framework by giving
users immediate feedback about incorrect sender expressions.

A relatively minor change to how sender completion signatures are computed, and
a trivial change to the sender adaptor algorithms makes it possible for the
majority of sender expressions to be type-checked immediately, when the
expression is constructed, rather than when it is connected to a receiver (the
status quo).

Executive Summary
-----------------

Below are the specific changes this paper proposes in order to improve the
diagnostics emitted by sender-based codes:

1. Define a "non-dependent sender" to be one whose completions are knowable
   without an environment.

2. Add support for calling `get_completion_signatures` without an environment
   argument.

3. Change the definition of the `completion_signatures_of_t` alias template to
   support querying a sender's non-dependent signatures, if such exist.

4. Extend the awaitable helper concepts to support querying a type whether it is
   awaitable in an arbitrary coroutine (without knowing the promise type). For
   example, anything that implements the awaiter interface (`await_ready`,
   `await_suspend`, `await_resume`) is awaitable in any coroutine, and should
   function as a non-dependent sender.

5. Require the sender adaptor algorithms to preserve the "non-dependent sender"
   property wherever possible.

6. Add "Mandates:" paragraphs to the sender adaptor algorithms to require them
   to hard-error when passed non-dependent senders that fail type-checking.

7. Extend the eager type checking of the `let_` family of algorithms to
   hard-error if the user passes a lambda that does not return a sender type.

8. For any algorithm that eagerly `connect`s a sender (e.g., `sync_wait`,
   `split`), hard-error (_i.e._ `static_assert`) if the sender fails to
   type-check rather than SFINAE-ing the overload away.

9. Specify that `run_loop`'s schedule sender is non-dependent.

Revision History
----------------

**R4**:

* Specify that `get_completion_signatures<Sndr, Env...>()` is ill-formed
  if `sizeof...(Env)` is greater than one.

* Remove the option to use a nested `::completion_signatures` type alias to
  declare a sender's (non-dependent) completion signatures.

**R3**:

* Rebase the paper on the current standard working draft.

* Remove section respecifying `transform_completion_signatures` to propagate
   type errors. A separate paper ([P3557](https://wg21.link/P3557)) addresses the issue of type errors
   during the computation of completion signatures.

* Specify `stopped_as_optional` to mandate that its child sender satisfies
   the *`single-sender`* concept, and change the *`single-sender`* concept
   so that it works properly with non-dependent senders.

* Add requirement to [exec.snd.general] that ensures user-defined customizations
   of sender algorithms produce non-dependent senders when the default
   implementation would.

* Specify the exposition-only *`basic-sender`* helper to support the creation
   of non-dependent senders. (This change includes the proposed resolution
   for [cplusplus/sender-receiver#307](https://github.com/cplusplus/sender-receiver/issues/307).)

* Update the exposition-only *`sender-of`* concept to work with non-dependent
   senders (i.e. <code><em>sender-of</em>&lt;Sndr, int></code> subsumes
   `sender_in<Sndr>`).

* Specify that the sender returned by calling `schedule` on `run_loop`'s
   scheduler is non-dependent.

**R2**:

* Remove the `sender_in<Sndr, Env...>` constraint on the
   `completion_signatures_of_t<Sndr, Env...>` alias.

* Specify `get_completion_signatures(sndr, env)` to dispatch to
   `get_completion_signatures(sndr)` as a last resort, per suggestion from
   Lewis Baker.

* Add encouragement for implementors to use the completion signatures of the
   sender adaptor algorithms to propagate type errors.

* Add a [design discussion](#design-considerations-1) about the decision to
   _infer_ that types returned from `get_completion_signatures` represent errors
   if they are not specializations of `completion_signatures<>`.

**R1**:

* Change the specification of `transform_completion_signatures` to propagate
   types that are not specialization of the `completion_signatures<>` class
   template. This makes it easier to use an algorithm's completion signatures
   to communicate type errors from child senders.

* For the customization points `let_value`, `let_error`, and `let_stopped`,
   mandate that the callable's possible return types all satisfy `sender`.

* Change _Requires:_ to _Mandates_: for algorithms that eagerly connect
   senders.

**R0**:

* Original revision

Improving early diagnostics
---------------------------

### Problem Description

Type-checking a sender expression involves computing its completion signatures.
In the general case, a sender's completion signatures may depend on the
receiver's execution environment. For example, the sender:

```c++
read_env(get_stop_token)
```

... when connected to a receiver `rcvr` and started, will fetch the stop token from
the receiver's environment and then pass it back to the receiver, as follows:

```c++
auto st = get_stop_token(get_env(rcvr));
set_value(move(rcvr), move(st));
```

Without an execution environment, the sender `read_env(get_stop_token)` doesn't know
how it will complete.

The type of the environment is known rather late, when the sender is connected
to a receiver. This is often far from where the sender expression was
constructed. If there are type errors in a sender expression, those errors will
be diagnosed far from where the error was made, which makes it harder to know
the source of the problem.

It would be far preferable to issue diagnostics while *constructing* the sender
rather than waiting until it is connected to a receiver.

### Non-dependent senders

The majority of senders have completions that do not depend on the receiver's
environment. Consider `just(42)` -- it will complete with the integer `42` no
matter what receiver it is connected to. If a so-called "non-dependent" sender
advertised itself as such, then sender algorithms could eagerly type-check the
non-dependent senders they are passed, giving immediate feedback to the
developer.

For example, this expression should be immediately rejected:

```c++
just(42) | then([](int* p) { return *p; })
```


The `then` algorithm can reject `just(42)` and the above lambda because the
arguments don't match: an integer cannot be passed to a function expecting an
`int*`. The `then` algorithm can do that type-checking only when it knows the
input sender is non-dependent. It couldn't, for example, do any type-checking if
the input sender were `read_env(get_stop_token)` instead of `just(42)`.

And in fact, some senders *do* advertise themselves as non-dependent, although
the sender algorithms in ([exec]) do not currently do anything with that extra
information. A sender can declare its completions signatures with a nested type
alias, as follows:

```c++
template <class T>
struct just_sender {
  T value;

  using completion_signatures =
    std::execution::completion_signatures<
      std::execution::set_value_t(T)
    >;

  // ...
};
```


Senders whose completions depend on the execution environment cannot declare
their completion signatures this way. Instead, they must define a
`get_completion_signatures` customization that takes the environment as an
argument.

We can use this extra bit of information to define a `non_dependent_sender`
concept as follows:

```c++
template <class Sndr>
concept non_dependent_sender =
  sender<Sndr> &&
  requires {
    typename remove_reference_t<Sndr>::completion_signatures;
  };
```

A sender algorithm can use this concept to conditionally dispatch to code that
does eager type-checking.


### Suggested Solution

The author suggests that this notion of non-dependent senders be given fuller
treatment in `std::execution`. Conditionally defining the nested typedef in
generic sender adaptors -- which may adapt either dependent or non-dependent
senders -- is awkward and verbose. We suggest instead to support calling
`get_completion_signatures` either with _or without_ an execution environment.
This makes it easier for authors of sender adaptors to preserve the
"non-dependent" property of the senders it wraps.

We suggest that a similar change be made to the `completion_signatures_of_t`
alias template. When instantiated with only a sender type, it should compute the
non-dependent completion signatures, or be ill-formed.

Finally, since a sender can now use its `get_completion_signatures()`
member function to provide its non-dependent senders, the nested
`completion_signatures` type alias becomes redundant. This paper suggests
dropping support for that.

### Comparison Table

Consider the following code, which contains a type error:

```c++
auto work = just(42)
          | then([](int* p) { // <<< ERROR here
              //...
            });
```

The table below shows the result of compiling this code both before the proposed
change and after:

<table style="table-layout: fixed; width: 100%;">
<thead>
<tr>
<th style="width:30%">

Before

</th>
<th>

After

</th>
</tr>
</thead>
<tbody>
<tr>
<td>

*no error*

</td>
<td>

<pre class="sourceCode">
error: static_assert failed due to requirement '_is_completion_signatures&lt;
ustdex::ERROR&lt;ustdex::WHERE (ustdex::IN_ALGORITHM, ustdex::then_t), ustdex
::WHAT (ustdex::FUNCTION_IS_NOT_CALLABLE), ustdex::WITH_FUNCTION ((lambda
at hello.cpp:57:18)), ustdex::WITH_ARGUMENTS (int)&gt;&gt;'
    static_assert(_is_completion_signatures&lt;_completions&gt;);
    ^             ~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~
</pre>


</td>
</tr>
</tbody>
</table>

This error was generated with with [µstdex](https://github.com/ericniebler/ustdex) library and Clang-13.

Proposed Wording
----------------

<span class="ednote">This proposed wording is based on the current working
draft.</span>

<span class="ednote">Change [async.ops]/13 as follows:</span>

<blockquote>

13. A completion signature is a function type that describes a completion
    operation. An asychronous operation has a finite set of possible completion
    signatures corresponding to the completion operations that the asynchronous
    operation potentially evaluates ([basic.def.odr]). For a completion function
    `set`, receiver `rcvr`, and pack of arguments `args`, let `c` be the
    completion operation `set(rcvr, args...)`, and let `F` be the function type
    `decltype(auto(set))(decltype((args))...)`. A completion signature `Sig` is
    associated with `c` if and only if `MATCHING-SIG(Sig, F)` is `true`
    ([exec.general]). Together, a sender type and an environment type `Env`
    determine the set of completion signatures of an asynchronous operation that
    results from connecting the sender with a receiver that has an environment
    of type `Env`. The type of the receiver does not affect an asychronous
    operation’s completion signatures, only the type of the receiver’s
    environment. <ins>A sender type whose completion signatures are knowable
    independent of an execution environment is known as a <dfn>non-dependent
    sender</dfn>.</ins>
</blockquote>


<span class="ednote">Change [exec.syn] as follows:</span>

<blockquote>
<blockquote>
<pre class="sourceCode">
<span style="color:blue">...</span>
template&lt;class Sndr, class<ins>...</ins> Env <del>= env&lt;&gt;</del>>
  concept sender_in = <em>see below</em>;
<span style="color:blue">...</span>
&nbsp;
template&lt;class Sndr, class<ins>...</ins> Env <del>= env&lt;&gt;</del>>
   requires sender_in&lt;Sndr, Env<ins>...</ins>>
  using completion_signatures_of_t = <em>call-result-t</em>&lt;get_completion_signatures_t, Sndr, Env<ins>...</ins>>;
<span style="color:blue">...</span>
&nbsp;
template&lt;class Sndr, class<ins>...</ins> Env>
  using <em>single-sender-value-type</em> = <em>see below</em>;                  <em>// exposition only</em>
&nbsp;
template&lt;class Sndr, class<ins>...</ins> Env>
  concept <em>single-sender</em> = <em>see below</em>;                           <em>// exposition only</em>
<span style="color:blue">...</span>
</pre>
</blockquote>

1. The exposition-only type <code><em>variant-or-empty</em>&lt;Ts...></code> is
   defined as follows <span style="color:blue">... as before</span>

2. For types `Sndr` and <ins>pack</ins> `Env`, <ins>let `CS` be
   `completion_signatures_of_t<Sndr, Env...>`. Then</ins>
   <code><em>single-sender-value-type</em>&lt;Sndr, Env<ins>...</ins>></code> is
   <ins>ill-formed if `CS` is ill-formed or if `sizeof...(Env) > 1` is `true`;
   otherwise, it is</ins> an alias for:

   * <del><code>value_types_of_t&lt;Sndr,
     Env</del><ins><em>gather-signatures</em>&lt;set_value_t, CS</ins>, decay_t,
     type_identity_t></code> if that type is well-formed,

   * Otherwise, `void` if <code><del>value_types_of_t&lt;Sndr,
     Env</del><ins><em>gather-signatures</em>&lt;set_value_t, CS</ins>, tuple,
     variant></code> is `variant<tuple<>>` or `variant<>`,

   * Otherwise, <code><del>value_types_of_t&lt;Sndr,
     Env</del><ins><em>gather-signatures</em>&lt;set_value_t, CS</ins>,
     <em>decayed-tuple</em>, type_identity_t></code> if that type is
     well-formed,

   * Otherwise, <code><em>single-sender-value-type</em>&lt;Sndr,
     Env<ins>...</ins>></code> is ill-formed.

3. The exposition-only concept *`single-sender`* is defined as follows:
   <blockquote><pre class="sourceCode">
   namespace std::execution {
     template&lt;class Sndr, class<ins>...</ins> Env>
       concept <em>single-sender</em> = sender_in&lt;Sndr, Env<ins>...</ins>> &&
         requires {
           typename <em>single-sender-value-type</em>&lt;Sndr, Env<ins>...</ins>>;
         };
   }
   </pre></blockquote>

</blockquote>

<span class="ednote">Change [exec.snd.general] para 1 as follows:</span>

<blockquote>

1. Subclauses [exec.factories] and [exec.adapt] define customizable algorithms
   that return senders. Each algorithm has a default implementation. Let `sndr`
   be the result of an invocation of such an algorithm or an object equal to the
   result ([concepts.equality]), and let `Sndr` be `decltype((sndr))`. Let
   `rcvr` be a receiver of type `Rcvr` with associated environment `env` of type
   `Env` such that `sender_to<Sndr, Rcvr>` is `true`. For the default
   implementation of the algorithm that produced `sndr`, connecting `sndr` to
   `rcvr` and starting the resulting operation state ([exec.async.ops])
   necessarily results in the potential evaluation ([basic.def.odr]) of a set of
   completion operations whose first argument is a subexpression equal to
   `rcvr`. Let `Sigs` be a pack of completion signatures corresponding to this
   set of completion operations<del>. Then</del> <ins>, and let `CS` be</ins>
   the type of the expression `get_completion_signatures(sndr, env)` <ins>. Then
   `CS`</ins> is a specialization of the class template `completion_signatures`
   ([exec.util.cmplsig]), the set of whose template arguments is `Sigs`. <ins>If
   none of the types in `Sigs` are dependent on the type `Env`, then the
   expression `get_completion_signatures(sndr)` is well-formed and its type is
   `CS`.</ins> If a user-provided implementation of the algorithm that produced
   `sndr` is selected instead of the default: <span class="ednote">Reformatted
   into a list.</span>

   * Any completion signature that is in the set of types denoted by
      `completion_signatures_of_t<Sndr, Env>` and that is not part of `Sigs`
      shall correspond to error or stopped completion operations, unless
      otherwise specified.

   * <ins>If none of the types in `Sigs` are dependent on the type `Env`, then
      `completion_signatures_of_t<Sndr>` and
      `completion_signatures_of_t<Sndr, Env>` shall denote the same type.<ins>

</blockquote>


<span class="ednote">In [exec.snd.expos] para 24, change the definition of the
exposition-only templates <em>`completion-signatures-for`</em> and
<em>`basic-sender`</em> as follows:

<blockquote>
<blockquote>
<pre class="sourceCode">
  template&lt;class Sndr, class<ins>...</ins> Env>
  using <em>completion-signatures-for</em> = <em>see below</em>;                   <em>// exposition only</em>
&nbsp;
  template&lt;class Tag, class Data, class... Child>
  struct <em>basic-sender</em> : <em>product-type</em>&lt;Tag, Data, Child...> {    <em>// exposition only</em>
    using sender_concept = sender_t;
    using <em>indices-for</em> = index_sequence_for&lt;Child...>;       <em>// exposition only</em>
&nbsp;
    decltype(auto) get_env() const noexcept {
      auto& [_, data, ...child] = *this;
      return <em>impls-for</em>&lt;Tag>::<em>get-attrs</em>(data, child...);
    }
&nbsp;
    template&lt;<em>decays-to</em>&lt;<em>basic-sender</em>> Self, receiver Rcvr>
    auto connect(this Self&& self, Rcvr rcvr) noexcept(<em>see below</em>)
      -> <em>basic-operation</em>&lt;Self, Rcvr> {
      return {std::forward&lt;Self>(self), std::move(rcvr)};
    }
&nbsp;
    template&lt;<em>decays-to</em>&lt;<em>basic-sender</em>> Self, class<ins>...</ins> Env>
    auto get_completion_signatures(this Self&& self, Env&&<ins>...</ins> env) noexcept
      -> <em>completion-signatures-for</em>&lt;Self, Env<ins>...</ins>> {
      return {};
    }
  };
</pre>
</blockquote>
</blockquote>

<span class="ednote">Change [exec.snd.expos] para 39 as follows (this includes
the proposed resolution of
[cplusplus/sender-receiver#307](https://github.com/cplusplus/sender-receiver/issues/307)):</span>

<blockquote>

<div class="del">

39. For a subexpression `sndr` let `Sndr` be `decltype((sndr))`. Let `rcvr` be a
   receiver with an associated environment of type `Env` such that
   `sender_in<Sndr, Env>` is `true`.
   <code><em>completion-signatures-for</em>&lt;Sndr, Env></code> denotes a
   specialization of `completion_signatures`, the set of whose template
   arguments correspond to the set of completion operations that are potentially
   evaluated as a result of starting ([exec.async.ops]) the operation state that
   results from connecting `sndr` and `rcvr`. When `sender_in<Sndr, Env>` is
   `false`, the type denoted by
   <code><em>completion-signatures-for</em>&lt;Sndr, Env></code>, if any, is not
   a specialization of `completion_signatures`.
   \
   \
   <em>Recommended practice</em>: When `sender_in<Sndr, Env>` is `false`,
   implementations are encouraged to use the type denoted by
   <code><em>completion-signatures-for</em>&lt;Sndr, Env></code> to communicate
   to users why.

</div>

<div class="ins">

39. Let `Sndr` be a (possibly `const`-qualified) specialization of
   <code><em>basic-sender</em></code> or an lvalue reference of such, let `Rcvr`
   be the type of a receiver with an associated environment of type `Env`. If
   the type <code><em>basic-operation</em>&lt;Sndr, Rcvr></code> is well-formed,
   let `op` be an lvalue subexpression of that type. Then
   <code><em>completion-signatures-for</em>&lt;Sndr, Env></code> denotes a
   specialization of `completion_signatures`, the set of whose template
   arguments corresponds to the set of completion operations that are
   potentially evaluated ([basic.def.odr]) as a result of evaluating
   `op.start()`. Otherwise, <code><em>completion-signatures-for</em>&lt;Sndr,
   Env></code> is ill-formed. If
   <code><em>completion-signatures-for</em>&lt;Sndr, Env></code> is well-formed
   and its type is not dependent upon the type `Env`,
   <code><em>completion-signatures-for</em>&lt;Sndr></code> is well-formed and
   denotes the same type; otherwise,
   <code><em>completion-signatures-for</em>&lt;Sndr></code> is ill-formed.

</div>

</blockquote>


<span class="ednote">Change the `sender_in` concept in [exec.snd.concepts] para
1 as follows:</span>

<blockquote><pre class="sourceCode">
template&lt;class Sndr, class<ins>...</ins> Env <del>= env&lt;&gt;</del>>
  concept sender_in =
    sender&lt;Sndr> &&
   <ins>(sizeof...(Env) <= 1)</ins>
    <ins>(</ins>queryable&lt;Env><ins> &&...)</ins> &&
    requires (Sndr&& sndr, Env&&<ins>...</ins> env) {
      { get_completion_signatures(std::forward&lt;Sndr>(sndr), std::forward&lt;Env>(env)<ins>...</ins>) }
        -> <em>valid-completion-signatures</em>;
    };
</pre></blockquote>

<span class="ednote">This subtly changes the meaning of `sender_in<Sndr>`. Before
the change, it tests whether a type is a sender when used specifically with the
environment `env<>`. After the change, it tests whether a type is a
non-dependent sender. This is a stronger assertion to make about the type; it
says that this type is a sender *regardless of the environment*. One can still
get the old behavior with `sender_in<Sndr, env<>>`.</span>

<span class="ednote">Change [exec.snd.concepts] para 4 as follows (so that the
exposition-only *`sender-of`* concept tests for sender-ness with no environment
as opposed to the empty environment, `env<>`):</span>

<blockquote>

4. The exposition-only concepts *`sender-of`* and *`sender-in-of`* define the
   requirements for a sender type that completes with a given unique set of
   value result types.

<blockquote><pre class="sourceCode">
namespace std::execution {
  template&lt;class... As>
    using <em>value-signature</em> = set_value_t(As...);      <em>// exposition only</em>
<div class="del">
  template&lt;class Sndr, class Env, class... Values>
    concept <em>sender-in-of</em> =
      sender_in&lt;Sndr, Env> &&
      <em>MATCHING-SIG</em>(                     <em>// see [exec.general]</em>
        set_value_t(Values...),
        value_types_of_t&lt;Sndr, Env, <em>value-signature</em>, type_identity_t>);
&nbsp;
  template&lt;class Sndr, class... Values>
    concept <em>sender-of</em> = <em>sender-in-of</em>&lt;Sndr, env&lt;>, Values...>;
</div><div class="ins">
  template&lt;class Sndr, class SetValue, class... Env>
    concept <em>sender-in-of-impl</em> =         <em>// exposition only</em>
      sender_in&lt;Sndr, Env...> &&
      <em>MATCHING-SIG</em>(SetValue,                          <em>// see [exec.general]</em>        
                   <em>gather-signatures</em>&lt;set_value_t,     <em>// see [exec.util.cmplsig]</em>
                                     completion_signatures_of_t&lt;Sndr, Env...>,
                                     <em>value-signature</em>,
                                     type_identity_t>);
&nbsp;
  template&lt;class Sndr, class Env, class... Values>
    concept <em>sender-in-of</em> =              <em>// exposition only</em>
      <em>sender-in-of-impl</em>&lt;Sndr, set_value_t(Values...), Env>;
&nbsp;
  template&lt;class Sndr, class... Values>
    concept <em>sender-of</em> =                 <em>// exposition only</em>
      <em>sender-in-of-impl</em>&lt;Sndr, set_value_t(Values...)>;
</div>
}
</pre></blockquote>

</blockquote>


<span class="ednote">Change [exec.awaitables] p 1-4 as follows:</span>

<blockquote>

1. The sender concepts recognize awaitables as senders. For [exec], an
   *awaitable* is an expression that would be well-formed as the operand of a
   `co_await` expression within a given context.

2. For a subexpression `c`, let `GET-AWAITER(c, p)` be expression-equivalent to
   the series of transformations and conversions applied to `c` as the operand
   of an *await-expression* in a coroutine, resulting in lvalue `e` as described
   by [expr.await], where `p` is an lvalue referring to the coroutine’s
   promise, which has type `Promise`.
   
   [*Note 1*: This includes the invocation of the promise type’s
   `await_transform` member if any, the invocation of the `operator co_await`
   picked by overload resolution if any, and any necessary implicit conversions
   and materializations. -- *end note*]
   
   <ins>Let `GET-AWAITER(c)` be expression-equivalent to
   `GET-AWAITER(c, q)` where `q` is an lvalue of an unspecified empty class type
   *`none-such`* that lacks an `await_transform` member, and where
   <code>coroutine_handle&lt;<em>none-such</em>></code> behaves as
   `coroutine_handle<void>`.</ins>

3. Let *`is-awaitable`* be the following exposition-only concept:

   <pre class="sourceCode">
      template&lt;class T>
      concept <em>await-suspend-result</em> = <em>see below</em>;

      template&lt;class A, class<ins>...</ins> Promise>
      concept <em>is-awaiter</em> = <em>// exposition only</em>
         requires (A& a, coroutine_handle&lt;Promise<ins>...</ins>> h) {
            a.await_ready() ? 1 : 0;
            { a.await_suspend(h) } -> <em>await-suspend-result</em>;
            a.await_resume();
         };

      template&lt;class C, class<ins>...</ins> Promise>
      concept <em>is-awaitable</em> =
         requires (C (*fc)() noexcept, Promise&<ins>...</ins> p) {
            { <em>GET-AWAITER</em>(fc(), p<ins>...</ins>) } -> <em>is-awaiter</em>&lt;Promise<ins>...</ins>>;
         };
   </pre>

   <code><em>await-suspend-result</em>&lt;T></code> is `true` if and only if one
   of the following is `true`:

   * `T` is `void`, or
   * `T` is `bool`, or
   * `T` is a specialization of `coroutine_handle`.

4. For a subexpression `c` such that `decltype((c))` is type `C`, and an lvalue
   `p` of type `Promise`, <code><em>await-result-type</em>&lt;C, Promise></code>
   denotes the type
   <code>decltype(<em>GET-AWAITER</em>(c, p).await_resume())</code> <ins> and
   <code><em>await-result-type</em>&lt;C></code> denotes the type
   <code>decltype(<em>GET-AWAITER</em>(c).await_resume())</code></ins>.
</blockquote>


<span class="ednote">Change [exec.getcomplsigs] as follows:</span>

<blockquote>

1. `get_completion_signatures` is a customization point object. Let `sndr` be an
   expression such that `decltype((sndr))` is `Sndr`, and let `env` be <del>an
   expression such that `decltype((env))` is `Env`</del> <ins>a pack of
   expressions</ins>. <del>Let</del><ins>If `sizeof...(env) == 0` is `true`, let
   `new_sndr` be `sndr`; otherwise, let</ins> `new_sndr` be the expression
   <code>transform_sender(decltype(<em>get-domain-late</em>(sndr,
   env<ins>...</ins>)){}, sndr, env<ins>...</ins>)</code><ins></ins>, and let
   `NewSndr` be `decltype((new_sndr))`. <del>Then</del> <ins>If <code>sizeof...(env)
   &gt; 1</code> is `true`, then</ins> <code>get_completion_signatures(sndr,
   env<ins>...</ins>)</code> is <ins>ill-formed; otherwise, it is</ins>
   expression-equivalent to <code>(void(sndr), void(env)<ins>...</ins>,
   CS())</code> except that `void(sndr)` and
   <code>void(env)<ins>...</ins></code> are indeterminately sequenced, where
   `CS` is:

   <ul class="dash">

   <li><span class="marginalizedparent">(1.1)</span>
   <code>decltype(new_sndr.get_completion_signatures(env<ins>...</ins>))</code>
   if that type is well-formed,</li>

   <li><ins><span class="marginalizedparent">(1.?)</span>
   Otherwise, if <code>sizeof...(env) == 1</code> is <code>true</code>, then
   <code>decltype(new_sndr.get_completion_signatures())</code> if that
   expression is well-formed,</ins></li>

   <li><del><span class="marginalizedparent">(1.2)</span>
   Otherwise, <code>remove_cvref_t<NewSndr>::completion_signatures</code> if that type is
   well-formed,</del></li>

   <li><span class="marginalizedparent">(1.3)</span>
   Otherwise, if <code><em>is-awaitable</em>&lt;NewSndr,
   <em>env-promise</em>&lt;<del>Env</del><ins>decltype((env))</ins>><ins>...</ins>></code>
   is <code>true</code>, then:
   <blockquote>
   <pre class="sourceCode">
   completion_signatures<
      <em>SET-VALUE-SIG</em>(<em>await-result-type</em>&lt;NewSndr, <em>env-promise</em>&lt;<del>Env</del><ins>decltype((env))</ins>><ins>...</ins>>), // see [exec.snd.concepts]
      set_error_t(exception_ptr),
      set_stopped_t()>
   </pre>
   </blockquote></li>

   <li><span class="marginalizedparent">(1.4)</span>
   Otherwise, <code>CS</code> is ill-formed.</li>

   </ul>

<div class="ins">

2. If `get_completion_signatures(sndr)` is well-formed and its type denotes
   a specialization of the `completion_signatures` class template, then `Sndr`
    is a non-dependent sender type ([async.ops]).

3. Given a type `Env`, if `completion_signatures_of_t<Sndr>` and
   `completion_signatures_of_t<Sndr, Env>` are both well-formed, they shall
   denote the same type.

</div>

4. Let `rcvr` be an rvalue whose type `Rcvr` <span style="color:blue">_...as before_</span>

</blockquote>


<span class="ednote">Change [exec.adapt.general] as follows:</span>

<blockquote>

<ul class="dash">

<li><span class="marginalizedparent">(3.4)</span>When a parent sender is
connected to a receiver <code>rcvr</code>, any receiver used to connect a child
sender has an associated environment equal to
<code><em>FWD-ENV</em>(get_env(rcvr))</code>.</li>

<li><span class="marginalizedparent"><ins>(3.5)</ins></span><ins>An adaptor
whose child senders are all non-dependent ([async.ops]) is itself non-dependent.
</ins></li>

<li><p><span class="marginalizedparent">(3.<ins>6</ins>)</span>These
requirements apply to any function that is selected by the implementation of the
sender adaptor.</p></span>

<li><span class="marginalizedparent"><ins>(3.7)</ins></span><ins><em>Recommended
practice</em>: Implementors are encouraged to use the completion signatures of
the adaptors to communicate type errors to users and to propagate any such type
errors from child senders.</ins></li>

</ul>

</blockquote>

<span class="ednote">Change [exec.then] as follows:</span>

<blockquote>

2. The names `then`, `upon_error`, and `upon_stopped` denote pipeable sender
   adaptor objects. <ins>For `then`, `upon_error`, and `upon_stopped`, let
   *`set-cpo`* be `set_value`, `set_error`, and `set_stopped`
   respectively.</ins> Let the expression *`then-cpo`* be one of `then`,
   `upon_error`, or `upon_stopped`. For subexpressions `sndr` and `f`, if
   `decltype((sndr))` does not satisfy `sender`, or `decltype((f))` does not
   satisfy *`movable-value`*, <code><em>then-cpo</em>(sndr, f)</code> is
   ill-formed.

<div class="ins">

3. Otherwise, let *`invoke-result`* be an alias template such that
   <code><em>invoke-result</em>&lt;Ts\...></code> denotes the type
   `invoke_result_t<F, Ts...>` where `F` is the decayed type of `f`. The
   expression <code><em>then-cpo</em>(sndr, f)</code> mandates that either
   `sender_in<Sndr>` is `false` or the type
   <code><em>gather-signatures</em>&lt;<em>decayed-typeof</em>&lt;<em>set-cpo</em>>,
   completion_signatures_of_t&lt;Sndr>, <em>invoke-result</em>,
   <em>type-list</em>></code> is well-formed.
</div>

4. <del>Otherwise, the</del><ins>The</ins> expression
   <code><em>then-cpo</em>(sndr, f)</code> is expression-equivalent to:
   <blockquote><pre class="sourceCode">
   transform_sender(<em>get-domain-early</em>(sndr), <em>make-sender</em>(<em>then-cpo</em>, f, sndr))
   </pre></blockquote>
   except that <code>sndr</code> is evaluated only once.


5. <del>For `then`, `upon_error`, and `upon_stopped`, let *`set-cpo`* be
   `set_value`, `set_error`, and `set_stopped` respectively.</del> The
   exposition-only class template *`impls-for`* ([exec.snd.general]) is
   specialized for *`then-cpo`* as follows:  <span style="color:blue">_...as before_</span>

</blockquote>


<span class="ednote">Change [exec.let] by inserting a new paragraph between (3)
and (4) as follows:</span>

<blockquote>
<div class="ins">

4. Let *`invoke-result`* be an alias template such that
   <code><em>invoke-result</em>&lt;Ts\...></code> denotes the type
   `invoke_result_t<F, Ts...>` where `F` is the decayed type of `f`. The
   expression <code><em>let-cpo</em>(sndr, f)</code> mandates that either
   `sender_in<Sndr>` is `false` or the type
   <code><em>gather-signatures</em>&lt;<em>decayed-typeof</em>&lt;<em>set-cpo</em>>,
   completion_signatures_of_t&lt;Sndr>, <em>invoke-result</em>,
   <em>type-list</em>></code> is well-formed and that the types in the resulting
   type list all satisfy `sender`.

</div>

5. <del>Otherwise, the</del><ins>The</ins> expression
   <code><em>let-cpo</em>(sndr, f)</code> is expression-equivalent to:
   <blockquote><pre class="sourceCode">
   transform_sender(<em>get-domain-early</em>(sndr), <em>make-sender</em>(<em>let-cpo</em>, f, sndr))
   </pre></blockquote>
   except that <code>sndr</code> is evaluated only once.

</blockquote>

<span class="ednote">Change [exec.bulk] by inserting a new paragraph between (1)
and (2) as follows:</span>

<blockquote>
<div class="ins">

2. Let *`invoke-result`* be an alias template such that
   <code><em>invoke-result</em>&lt;Ts\...></code> denotes the type
   `invoke_result_t<F, Shape, Ts...>` where `F` is the decayed type of `f`. The
   expression `bulk(sndr, f)` mandates that either `sender_in<Sndr>` is `false`
   or the type <code><em>gather-signatures</em>&lt;set_value_t,
   completion_signatures_of_t&lt;Sndr>, <em>invoke-result</em>,
   <em>type-list</em>></code> is well-formed.

</div>

3. <del>Otherwise, the</del><ins>The</ins> expression
   `bulk(sndr, shape, f)` is expression-equivalent to:
   <blockquote><pre class="sourceCode">
   transform_sender(<em>get-domain-early</em>(sndr), <em>make-sender</em>(bulk, <em>product-type</em>{shape f}, sndr))
   </pre></blockquote>
   except that <code>sndr</code> is evaluated only once.

</blockquote>

<span class="ednote">Change [exec.split] as follows:</span>

<blockquote>

3. The name `split` denotes a pipeable sender adaptor object. For a
    subexpression `sndr`, let `Sndr` be `decltype((sndr))`. <del>If</del><ins>
    The expression `split(sndr)` mandates that</ins> <code>sender_in&lt;Sndr,
    <em>split-env</em>></code> is <ins>`true`</ins> <del>`false`, `split(sndr)`
    is ill-formed</del>.

4. <del>Otherwise, the</del><ins>The</ins> expression `split(sndr)` is
   expression-equivalent to:
   <blockquote><pre class="sourceCode">
   transform_sender(<em>get-domain-early</em>(sndr), <em>make-sender</em>(split, {}, sndr))
   </pre></blockquote>
   except that <code>sndr</code> is evaluated only once.

   [*Note 1*: The default implementation of `transform_sender` will have the
   effect of connecting the sender to a receiver. It will return a sender with a
   different tag type. -- *end note*]

</blockquote>

<span class="ednote">Change [exec.stopped.opt] as follows:</span>

<blockquote>

2. The name `stopped_as_optional` denotes a pipeable sender adaptor object. For
   a subexpression `sndr`, let `Sndr` be `decltype((sndr))`. <ins>The expression
   `stopped_as_optional(sndr)` mandates that <code>!sender_in&lt;Sndr> ||
   <em>single-sender</em>&lt;Sndr></code> is `true`.</ins> The expression
   `stopped_as_optional(sndr)` is expression-equivalent to:

   <blockquote><pre class="sourceCode">
   transform_sender(<em>get-domain-early</em>(sndr), <em>make-sender</em>(stopped_as_optional, {}, sndr))
   </pre></blockquote>

   except that `sndr` is only evaluated once.

3. Let `sndr` and `env` be subexpressions such that `Sndr` is `decltype((sndr))`
   and `Env` is `decltype((env))`. If <code><em>sender-for</em>&lt;Sndr,
   stopped_as_optional_t></code> is `false`<del>, or if the type
   <code><em>single-sender-value-type</em>&lt;Sndr, Env></code> is ill-formed or
   `void`,</del> then the expression `stopped_as_optional.transform_sender(sndr,
   env)` is ill-formed; <ins>otherwise, that expression mandates that the type
   <code><em>single-sender-value-type</em>&lt;Sndr, Env></code> is well-formed
   and not `void`, and</ins> <del>otherwise, it</del> is equivalent to:
   <span style="color:blue">... as before</span>

</blockquote>

<span class="ednote">Change [exec.sync.wait] as follows:</span>

<blockquote>

4. The name `this_thread::sync_wait` denotes a customization point object. For a
    subexpression `sndr`, let `Sndr` be `decltype((sndr))`. <del>If
    <code>sender_in&lt;Sndr, <i>sync-wait-env</i>></code> is `false`, the
    expression `this_thread::sync_wait(sndr)` is ill-formed. Otherwise, it</del>
    <ins>The expression `this_thread::sync_wait(sndr)`</ins> is
    expression-equivalent to the following, except that `sndr` is evaluated only
    once:
   <blockquote><pre class="sourceCode">
   apply_sender(<em>get-domain-early</em>(sndr), sync_wait, sndr)
   </pre></blockquote>

   *Mandates*:

   <ul class="dash">

   <li><span class="marginalizedparent">(4.1)</span>
   <ins><code>sender_in&lt;Sndr, <i>sync-wait-env</i>></code> is <code>true</code>.</ins></li>

   <li><span class="marginalizedparent">(4.<ins>2</ins>)</span>
   The type <code><em>sync-wait-result-type</em>&lt;Sndr></code> is well-formed.</li>

   <li><span class="marginalizedparent">(4.<ins>3</ins>)</span>
   <code>same_as&lt;decltype(<em>e</em>),
   <em>sync-wait-result-type</em>&lt;Sndr>></code> is <code>true</code>, where
   <em><code>e</code></em> is the <code>apply_sender</code> expression above.</li>
   
   </ul>
   
   <span style="color:blue">_...as before_</span>
</blockquote>

<span class="ednote">Change [exec.sync.wait.var] as follows:</span>

<blockquote>

1. The name `this_thread::sync_wait_with_variant` denotes a customization point
    object. For a subexpression `sndr`, let `Sndr` be
    `decltype(into_variant(sndr))`. <del>If <code>sender_in&lt;Sndr,
    <i>sync-wait-env</i>></code> is `false`, the expression
    `this_thread::sync_wait(sndr)` is ill-formed. Otherwise, it</del> <ins>The
    expression `this_thread::sync_wait_with_variant(sndr)`</ins> is expression-equivalent to
    the following, except that `sndr` is evaluated only once:
   <blockquote><pre class="sourceCode">
   apply_sender(<em>get-domain-early</em>(sndr), sync_wait_with_variant, sndr)
   </pre></blockquote>

   *Mandates*:

   <ul class="dash">

   <li><span class="marginalizedparent">(1.1)</span>
   <ins><code>sender_in&lt;Sndr, <i>sync-wait-env</i>></code> is <code>true</code>.</ins></li>

   <li><span class="marginalizedparent">(1.<ins>2</ins>)</span>
   The type <code><em>sync-wait-with-variant-result-type</em>&lt;Sndr></code>
   is well-formed.</li>

   <li><span class="marginalizedparent">(1.<ins>3</ins>)</span>
   <code>same_as&lt;decltype(<em>e</em>),
   <em>sync-wait-with-variant-result-type</em>&lt;Sndr>></code> is <code>true</code>,
   where <em><code>e</code></em> is the <code>apply_sender</code> expression above.</li>
   
   </ul>

2. <del>If <code><em>callable</em>&lt;sync_wait_t, Sndr></code> is `false`, the
   expression `sync_wait_with_variant.apply_sender(sndr)` is ill-formed.
   Otherwise, it</del><ins>The expression
   `sync_wait_with_variant.apply_sender(sndr)`</ins> is equivalent to <span
   style="color:blue">_...as before_</span>
</blockquote>

<span class="ednote">Change [exec.run.loop.types] para 5 as follows:</span>

<blockquote>

5. *`run-loop-sender`* is an exposition-only type that satisfies `sender`. <del>
For any type <code>Env</code>,</del> <code>completion_signatures_of_t&lt;
<em>run-loop-sender</em><del>, Env</del>&gt;</code> is
`completion_signatures<set_value_t(), set_error_t(exception_ptr), set_stopped_t()>`.


</blockquote>



Acknowlegments
--------------

We owe our thanks to Ville Voutilainen who first noticed that most sender
expressions could be type-checked eagerly but are not by P2300R8.
