---
title: "Fixing Customization of `continues_on` and `schedule_from`"
document: D3718R0
date: today
audience:
  - "LEWG Library Evolution Working Group"
  - "LWG Library Working Group"
author:
  - name: Eric Niebler
    email: <eric.niebler@gmail.com>
toc: true
---


# Background: `continues_on` and `schedule_from`:

`std::execution` has two customizable algorithms for transfering execution from one context to another: `continues_on` and `schedule_from`. The reason for having two is due to the fact there are two execution contexts in play: the context we're transitioning _from_ and the one we're transitioning _to_. The source context may need special sauce to transfer execution back to the CPU, and the destination context may need special sauce to transition from the CPU onto it.

The `schedule_from` algorithm looks for customizations based on the domain of the destination, and the `continues_on` algorithm dispatches based on the domain of the source. A "domain" is a tag type associated with an execution context that is used to find algorithm customizations for that context. The `continues_on` algorithm is required to lower to the result of a call to `schedule_from`. In this way, every context transition gets all the special sauce it needs to get from one arbitrary context to another, even if the two contexts know nothing about each other.

We can see this in the definitions of the `continues_on` and `schedule_from` customizations points:

| Algorithm                    | Returns                                                                                                            |
|------------------------------|--------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------|
| `continues_on(sndr, sched)`  | `transform_sender(get-domain-early(sndr), make-sender(continues_on, sched, sndr))`                                 |
| `schedule_from(sched, sndr)` | `transform_sender(query-or-default(get_domain, sched, default_domain{}), make-sender(schedule_from, sched, sndr))` |

By asking for the predecessor sender's domain, `continues_on` uses the domain of the source to find its customization. And by asking for the scheduler's domain, `schedule_from` uses the domain of the destination.

The final piece is the transformation, within the `connect` customization point, of the `continues_on` sender to the `schedule_from` sender, which is done with the `continues_on.transform_sender(Sndr, Env)` member function (see [[exec.continues.on] p5](https://eel.is/c++draft/exec#continues.on-5)).

-------

# Problem 1

When `connect`-time customization was added to `std::execution` in
[@P2999R3], the logic of `continues_on`/`schedule_from`
customization accidentally got reversed: The exposition-only _`get-domain-late`_ function,
which is called from `connect`, is used to determine the domain to use to find a sender
transform function. It says:

> > ```
> > template<class Sndr, class Env>
> >   constexpr auto get-domain-late(const Sndr& sndr, const Env& env) noexcept;
> > ```
> 
> 14. Effects: Equivalent to:
>
>     1. If ```@_sender-for_@<Sndr, continues_on_t>``` is `true`, then
> 
>        > ```
>        > return Domain();
>        > ```
>  
>        where `Domain` is the type of the following expression:
>  
>        > ```
>        > [] {
>        >   auto [_, sch, _] = sndr;
>        >   return @_query-or-default_@(get_domain, sch, default_domain());
>        > }();
>        > ```
>  
>        [_Note 1_: The `continues_on` algorithm works in tandem with `schedule_from`
>        ([exec.schedule.from]) to give scheduler authors a way to customize both how to
>        transition onto (`continues_on`) and off of (`schedule_from`) a given execution
>        context. Thus, `continues_on` ignores the domain of the predecessor and uses the
>        domain of the destination scheduler to select a customization, a property that is
>        unique to `continues_on`. That is why it is given special treatment here. — _end
>        note_]
> 
>     2. Otherwise,
> 
>        > ```
>        > return Domain();
>        > ```
>  
>        where `Domain` is the first of the following expressions that is well-formed and whose type is not `void`:
>  
>        * `get_domain(get_env(sndr))`
>        * `completion-domain<void>(sndr)`
>        * `get_domain(env)`
>        * `get_domain(get_scheduler(env))`
>        * `default_domain()`

Paragraph 14.1 above gets the roles of `continues_on` and `schedule_from` mixed up. They
should be reversed.

-----

# Problem 2

All of the adaptor algorithm CPOs use the domain of the predecessor(s) to find customizations. For example, `then(sndr, fn)` returns `transform_sender(get-domain-early(sndr), make-sender(then, fn, sndr))`; i.e., the domain is pulled from `sndr`. A sender that advertizes a domain is making an assertion about where it will complete. Where the predecessor completes is where the current sender will start. Therefore, `then(sndr, fn)` is dispatching based on where the `then` sender will _start_.

If we look at the `connect` customization point at how a late customization is found, we see that before it does anything else, it transforms the input sender as follows:

> ```
> transform_sender(decltype(get-domain-late(sndr, get_env(rcvr))){}, sndr, get_env(rcvr))
> ```

We can see that when passed a `then` sender, we ask the `then` sender for its domain (and use the domain of the receiver's env as a fallback). That means that for `then` senders, `connect` dispatches to a customization based on the domain of the `then` sender itself. That is different from early customization, which used the domain of the predecessor. The inconsistency is not intentional.

For `then` and most other adaptors, it doesn't make any difference. The `then` sender completes wherever its predecessor completes, so the "start" and "complete" domains are the same. That is not the case, however, for `continues_on`. The domain on which it starts can be different from the domain on which it completes.

The tl;dr of problem 2 is that **`connect` uses the wrong domain to find a customization for `continues_on`**. The domain of the `continues_on(sndr, sched)` sender is the domain on which it will complete, which is the domain of `sched`. But `continues_on` should be using the domain on which it _starts_ to find a customization.

A principled solution would be to recognize that a sender really has 2 associated domains: the starting domain and the completing domain. It follows that we should have two queries: `get_starting_domain` and `get_completion_domain`. Early customization would use the completion domain of the predecessor, whereas late customization would use the starting domain of the sender itself.

A simpler solution recognizes that for all adaptors besides `continues_on`, the starting domain and the completion domain are the same, so separate queries are not needed. (This is even true for the `schedule_from` sender: early or late, it should always use the domain of the destination scheduler). So we can leave `connect` alone and treat `continues_on` as special in _`get-domain-late`_.

------

# Back to First Principles

Given what we already know about why `schedule_from` and `continues_on` both exist and find customization the way they do, we can build a table that shows how customizations should be selected for all the scenarios of interest. Consider the sender expression `A | continues_on(Sch) | B`. The table below shows the domain that each algorithm should use to find a customization.

<center>

**Table 2: Domain that should be used to find customizations in  `A | continues_on(Sch) | B`**

| Algorithm       | Early customization uses...         | Late customization uses...          | `get_domain(get_env(ALGO(...)))` should return... |
|-----------------|-------------------------------------|-------------------------------------|----------------------------------------------------|
| `schedule_from` | domain of `Sch` or `default_domain` | domain of `Sch` or `default_domain` | domain of `Sch`                                    |
| `continues_on`  | domain of `A` or `default_domain`   | domain of `A` or domain of Env      | domain of `Sch`                                    |
| `B`             | domain of `Sch` or `default_domain` | domain of `Sch` or domain of Env    | n/a                                                |

</center>

We can use this table to correct the effected parts of the spec:

1. _`get-domain-late`_`(sndr, env)` should be changed to:
   1. when `sndr` is `completes_on(Pred,Sch)`, return the domain of `Pred` and use domain of `env` as a fallback.
   2. when `sndr` is `schedule_from(Sch,Pred)`, return the domain of `Sch` and use `default_domain` as a fallback (ignoring `env`).
   3. otherwise, return the domain of `sndr` and use domain of `env` as a fallback.

2. Change the _`SCHED-ATTRS`_ and _`SCHED-ENV`_ pseudo-macros from [exec.snd.expos] to
   accept a fallback environment in addition to a scheduler, but never use the fallback
   env to answer the `get_domain` query.

3. Change all uses of _`SCHED-ATTRS`_ and _`SCHED-ENV`_ as appropriate.


# Proposed Resolution

[Change [exec.snd.expos]/p6 as follows:]{.ednote}

> 6. For a scheduler `sch` [and environment `env`]{.add},
>    <code><em>SCHED-ATTRS</em>(sch[, env]{.add})</code> is an expression `o1` whose type
>    satisfies _`queryable`_ such that[:]{.add} [reformatted as a list.]{.ednote}
>    
>    1. <code>o1.query(get_completion_scheduler&lt;[Tag]{.rm}
>       [set_value_t]{.add}&gt;)</code> is an expression with the same type and value as
>       `sch`[ where `Tag` is one of `set_value_t` or `set_stopped_t`]{.rm}, [and such
>       that]{.rm}
>    
>    2. [<code>o1.query(get_completion_scheduler&lt;Tag&gt;)</code> is ill-formed for `Tag`
>       other than `set_value_t`,]{.add}
>    
>    3. `o1.query(get_domain)` is expression-equivalent to `sch.query(get_domain)`,
>       [and]{.add}
>    
>    4. [For a pack of subexpressions `as` and query object `Q` such that
>       `forwarding_query(Q)` is `true`, `o1.query(Q, as...)` is
>       expression-equivalent to `env.query(Q, as...)`]{.add}. 
>    
>    [<code><em>SCHED-ATTRS</em>(sch)</code> is expression-equivalent to
>    <code><em>SCHED-ATTRS</em>(sch,&nbsp;execution::env<>{})</code>.]{.add}
>    
>    <code><em>SCHED-ENV</em>(sch[, env]{.add})</code> is an expression `o2` whose type
>    satisfies _`queryable`_ such that[:]{.add}  [reformatted as a list.]{.ednote}
>    
>    1. `o2.query(get_scheduler)` is a prvalue with the same type and value as `sch`, [and
>       such that]{.rm}
>    
>    2. `o2.query(get_domain)` is expression-equivalent to
>       `sch.query(get_domain)`[.]{.rm}[, and]{.add}
>    
>    3. [For a pack of subexpressions `as` and query object `Q` such that
>       `forwarding_query(Q)` is `true`, `o2.query(Q, as...)` is
>       expression-equivalent to `env.query(Q, as...)`]{.add}. 
>    
>    [<code><em>SCHED-ENV</em>(sch)</code> is expression-equivalent to
>    <code><em>SCHED-ENV</em>(sch,&nbsp;execution::env<>{})</code>.]{.add}


[Change [exec.snd.expos]/p14 as follows:]{.ednote}

> > ```
> > template<class Sndr, class Env>
> >   constexpr auto @_get-domain-late_@(const Sndr& sndr, const Env& env) noexcept;
> > ```
> 
> 14. _Effects_: Equivalent to:
> 
>     1. [Taken from 14.3 with edits.]{.ednote} [Let
>        <code><em>DEFAULT-LATE-DOMAIN</em>(S,&nbsp;E)</code> be]{.add} the first of the following
>        expressions that is well-formed and whose type is not `void`:
> 
>        * ```get_domain(get_env(@[sndr]{.rm}[S]{.add}@))```
>        * ```completion-domain<void>(@[sndr]{.rm}[S]{.add}@)```
>        * ```get_domain(@[env]{.rm}[E]{.add}@)```
>        * ```get_domain(get_scheduler(@[env]{.rm}[E]{.add}@))```
>        * ```default_domain()```
> 
> 
>     2. If <code><em>sender-for</em>&lt;Sndr, [continues_on_t]{.rm} [schedule_from_t]{.add}&gt;</code>
>        is `true`, then
> 
>        > ```
>        > return Domain();
>        > ```
> 
>        where `Domain` is the type of the following expression:
> 
>        > ```
>        > [] {
>        >   auto [_, sch, _] = sndr;
>        >   return @_query-or-default_@(get_domain, sch, default_domain());
>        > }();
>        > ```
>        
>        [The [`continues_on`]{.rm}[`schedule_from`]{.add} algorithm works
>        in tandem with [`schedule_from` ([exec.schedule.from])]{.rm}[`continues_on`
>        ([exec.continues.on])]{.add} to give scheduler authors a way to customize both how
>        to transition [onto]{.rm}[off of]{.add} (`continues_on`) and [off
>        of]{.rm}[onto]{.add} (`schedule_from`) a given execution context. Thus,
>        [`continues_on`]{.rm}[`schedule_from`]{.add} ignores the domain of the
>        predecessor and uses the domain of the destination scheduler to select a
>        customization, a property that is unique to
>        [`continues_on`]{.rm}[`schedule_from`]{.add}. That is why it is given
>        special treatment here.]{.note}
> 
> 
>     ::: add
>     
>     2. Otherwise, if <code><em>sender-for</em>&lt;Sndr,&nbsp;continues_on_t&gt;</code> is
>        `true`, then
>     
>        > ```
>        > return Domain();
>        > ```
> 
>        where `Domain` is the type of the following expression:
> 
>        > ```
>        > [] {
>        >   const auto& [_, _, child] = sndr;
>        >   return @_DEFAULT-LATE-DOMAIN_@(child, env);
>        > }();
>        > ```
> 
>     :::
> 
>     3. Otherwise,
> 
>        > ```
>        > return Domain();
>        > ```
> 
>        [where `Domain` is ```@_`DEFAULT-LATE-DOMAIN`_@(sndr, env)```.]{.add}
>
>        ::: rm
>
>        where `Domain` is the first of the following expressions that is well-formed and
>        whose type is not `void`:
> 
>        * `get_domain(get_env(sndr))`
>        * <code><em>completion-domain</em>&lt;void&gt;(sndr)</code>
>        * `get_domain(env)`
>        * `get_domain(get_scheduler(env))`
>        * `default_domain()`
> 
>        :::


[Change [exec.starts.on]/p4.1 as follows:]{.ednote}

> 4. Let [..._as before_...]{.ednote}; otherwise:
> 
>    1. `starts_on.transform_env(out_sndr, env)` is equivalent to:
> 
>       > ```
>       > auto&& [_, sch, _] = out_sndr;
>       > @@[```return @_JOIN-ENV_@(@_SCHED-ENV_@(sch), @_FWD-ENV_@(env));```]{.rm}@@
>       > @@[```return @_SCHED-ENV_@(sch, env);```]{.add}@@
>       > ```

[Change [exec.continues.on]/p4 as follows:]{.ednote}

> 4. The exposition-only class template _`impls-for`_ is specialized for `continues_on_t` as follows:
> 
>    > ```
>    > namespace std::execution {
>    >   template<>
>    >   struct @_impls-for_@<continues_on_t> : default-impls {
>    >     static constexpr auto @_get-attrs_@ =
>    >       [](const auto& data, const auto& child) noexcept -> decltype(auto) {
>    >         @@[```return @_JOIN-ENV_@(@_SCHED-ATTRS_@(data), @_FWD-ENV_@(get_env(child)));```]{.rm}@@
>    >         @@[```return @_SCHED-ATTRS_@(data, get_env(child));```]{.add}@@
>    >       };
>    >   };
>    > }
>    > ```

[Change [exec.on]/p7 as follows:]{.ednote}


> 7. The expression `on.transform_env(out_sndr, env)` has effects equivalent to:
> 
>    > ```
>    > auto&& [_, data, _] = out_sndr;
>    > if constexpr (scheduler<decltype(data)>) {
>    >   @@[```return @_JOIN-ENV_@(@_SCHED-ENV_@(std::forward_like<OutSndr>(data)), @_FWD-ENV_@(std::forward<Env>(env)));```]{.rm}@@
>    >   @@[```return @_SCHED-ENV_@(std::forward_like<OutSndr>(data), std::forward<Env>(env));```]{.add}@@
>    > } else {
>    >   return std::forward<Env>(env);
>    > }
>    > ```

