---
title: "Fixing Lazy Sender Algorithm Customization, Again"
document: P3718R0
date: today
audience:
  - "LEWG Library Evolution Working Group"
  - "LWG Library Working Group"
author:
  - name: Eric Niebler
    email: <eric.niebler@gmail.com>
toc: true
---


# Background: `continues_on` and `schedule_from`:

`std::execution` has two customizable algorithms for transfering execution from one
context to another: `continues_on` and `schedule_from`. The reason for having two is due
to the fact there are two execution contexts in play: the context we're transitioning
_from_ and the one we're transitioning _to_.

A generic execution framework cannot know how to transition between arbitrary contexts;
that is an NxM problem. Instead, `std::execution` provides a way for schedulers to
separately customize how to transition to and from a standard thread of execution (ToE);
i.e., `std::thread` or `main`. Transitions between unrelated contexts is accomplised with
a hop through a ToE. We accomplish this by providing two customization points: one for
specifying any special sauce needed to transfer _from_ a standard ToE, and another for the
transfer back.

The `schedule_from` algorithm looks for customizations based on the domain of the
destination, and the `continues_on` algorithm dispatches based on the domain of the
source. A "domain" is a tag type associated with an execution context that is used to find
algorithm customizations for that context. The `continues_on` algorithm is required to
lower to the result of a call to `schedule_from`. In this way, every context transition
gets all the special sauce it needs to get from one arbitrary context to another.

We can see this in the definitions of the `continues_on` and `schedule_from`
customizations points:

<table>
<colgroup>
<col style="width: 30%" />
<col style="width: 70%" />
</colgroup>
<thead>
<tr class="header">
<th><div style="text-align:center">
<strong>Algorithm</strong>
</div></th>
<th><div style="text-align:center">
<strong>Returns</strong>
</div></th>
</tr>
</thead>
<tbody>
<tr class="odd">
<td><pre><code class="sourceCode default">continues_on(sndr, sched)</code></pre></td>
<td><pre><code class="sourceCode default">transform_sender(<em><code class="sourceCode default">get-domain-early</code></em>(sndr),
                 <em><code class="sourceCode default">make-sender</code></em>(continues_on, sched, sndr))</code></pre></td>
</tr>
<tr class="even">
<td><pre><code class="sourceCode default">schedule_from(sched, sndr)</code></pre></td>
<td><pre><code class="sourceCode default">transform_sender(<em><code class="sourceCode default">query-or-default</code></em>(get_domain, sched, default_domain{}),
                 <em><code class="sourceCode default">make-sender</code></em>(schedule_from, sched, sndr))</code></pre></td>
</tr>
</tbody>
</table>

By asking for the predecessor sender's domain, `continues_on` uses the domain of the
source to find its customization. And by asking for the scheduler's domain,
`schedule_from` uses the domain of the destination.

The final piece is the transformation, within the `connect` customization point, of the
`continues_on` sender to the `schedule_from` sender, which is done with the
`continues_on.transform_sender(Sndr, Env)` member function (see
[exec.continues.on#5]{.sref}).

-------

# The Problems

## Problem 1: A mix-up

When `connect`-time customization was added to `std::execution` in [@P2999R3], the logic
of `continues_on`/`schedule_from` customization accidentally got reversed: The
exposition-only _`get-domain-late`_ function, which is called from `connect`, determines
the domain used to find a sender transform function. It says:

> > ```c++
> > template<class Sndr, class Env>
> >   constexpr auto @_get-domain-late_@(const Sndr& sndr, const Env& env) noexcept;
> > ```
> 
> 14. Effects: Equivalent to:
>
>     1. If ```@_sender-for_@<Sndr, continues_on_t>``` is `true`, then
> 
>        > ```c++
>        > return Domain();
>        > ```
>  
>        where `Domain` is the type of the following expression:
>  
>        > ```c++
>        > [] {
>        >   auto [_, sch, _] = sndr;
>        >   return @_query-or-default_@(get_domain, sch, default_domain());
>        > }();
>        > ```
>  
>        [_Note 1_: The `continues_on` algorithm works in tandem with `schedule_from`
>        ([exec.schedule.from]) to give scheduler authors a way to customize both how to
>        transition onto (`continues_on`) and off of (`schedule_from`) a given execution
>        context. Thus, `continues_on` ignores the domain of the predecessor and uses the
>        domain of the destination scheduler to select a customization, a property that is
>        unique to `continues_on`. That is why it is given special treatment here. — _end
>        note_]
> 
>     2. Otherwise,
> 
>        > ```c++
>        > return Domain();
>        > ```
>  
>        where `Domain` is the first of the following expressions that is well-formed and
>        whose type is not `void`:
>  
>        * `get_domain(get_env(sndr))`
>        * ```@_`completion-domain`_@<void>(sndr)```
>        * `get_domain(env)`
>        * `get_domain(get_scheduler(env))`
>        * `default_domain()`

Paragraph 14.1 above gets the roles of `continues_on` and `schedule_from` mixed up. They
should be reversed.

-----

## Problem 2: A mis-`connect`

All of the adaptor algorithm CPOs use the domain of the predecessor(s) to find
customizations. For example, `then(sndr, fn)` returns
```transform_sender(@_`get-domain-early`_@(sndr), @_`make-sender`_@(then, fn, sndr))```;
i.e., the domain is pulled from `sndr`. A sender that advertizes a domain is making an
assertion about where it will complete. Where the predecessor completes is where the
current sender's continuation will execute.

If we look at the `connect` customization point at how a late customization is found, we
see that before it does anything else, it transforms the input sender as follows:

> ```c++
> transform_sender(decltype(@_`get-domain-late`_@(sndr, get_env(rcvr))){}, sndr, get_env(rcvr))
> ```

We can see that when passed a `then` sender, we ask the `then` sender for its domain (and
use the domain of the receiver's env as a fallback). That means that for `then` senders,
`connect` dispatches to a customization based on the domain of the `then` sender itself.
That is different from early customization, which used the domain of the predecessor. The
inconsistency is unintentional.

For `then` and most other adaptors, it doesn't make any difference. The `then` sender
completes wherever its predecessor completes, so the domain of `then` is the same as the
domain for the predecessor. That is not the case for all algorithms, though. For
`continues_on`, the domain on which it completes can be different from the domain on which
its predecessor completes.

In short, for `continues_on` and friends, `connect` is using the wrong domain to dispatch
to a customization. 

----

## Problem 3: A muddle

The `connect` customization point uses _`get-domain-late`_ to determine the domain to use
when applying a sender transformation. Quite apart from mixing up `schedule_from` and
`continues_on`, _`get-domain-late`_ incorrectly gives precedence to the sender's domain
over that of the receiver. The (flawed) reasoning was that a sender starts where its
predecessor completes, which makes intuitive sense when reading a sender chain:

> ```c++
> sender auto sndr = just() | continues_on(sch) | then([] { puts("hello world"); });
> ```

Reading the above code, one might naturally infer that the `then` sender will start on
the execution context associated with `sch`.

The trouble is: that's not true.

Senders nest and so too do their receivers and operation states. After `sndr` is connected
to a receiver, calling `start` on the resulting operation state is actually calling
`start` on the `then` sender's operation state! The actual order of events is:

1. `start` is called on the `then` sender's operation state,
2. ... which calls `start` on the `continues_on` operation state,
3. ... which calls `start` on the `just` operation state,
4. ... which calls `set_value` on the `continues_on` receiver,
5. ... which connects and starts a `schedule(sch)` sender,
6. ... which causes `set_value` to be called on `then`'s receiver from the execution
   context of `sch`,
7. ... which finally calls `set_value` on the receiver used to connect `sndr`.

If we want to dispatch based on where a sender will start, we should not be asking the
sender. A sender can only know where it will complete. The receiver knows where it will
start. The receiver is an extension of the parent sender. The parent sender starts the
child, and so it can pass information to the child about where `start` is being called
from. It does so via its receiver's environment.

Therefore, _`get-domain-late`_ is wrong to give precedence to the sender's domain.

------

# Back to First Principles

The `get_domain` query actually has two meanings depending on what is being queried:

* When querying a sender's attributes, `get_domain` tells where the sender will
  _complete_.
* When querying a receiver's environment, `get_domain` tells where the sender will
  _start_.

What's more, this information propagates in different directions. Information about where
senders complete is passed from left-to-right (in pipeline order) while the senders are
being constructed, whereas information about where senders start is passed right-to-left
while the senders are being connected.

Both bits of information -- where a sender will start and where it will complete -- can
usefully contribute to the selection of an implementation for a sender and its successor.

1. As we build a sender up, we can use information about where the predecessor will
   complete -- known only by the predecessor -- to control how the sender is constructed.
2. As we are connecting a sender and a receiver, we can use information about where the
   sender will start -- known only by the receiver -- to select an algorithm
   implementation. 

This is a clean and orderly separation of concerns. _`get-domain-early`_ returns the
sender's domain and _`get-domain-late`_ returns the receiver's domain.

So are we done? Well, no.

## Special Cases

We still want `schedule_from` and `continues_on` to have special rules so that scheduler
authors can properly orchestrate the transitions from one context to another.
`schedule_from(sch, sndr)` should use `sch` to find a customization, and
`continues_on(sndr, sch)` should use `sndr` to find customizations, both when building the
senders and when connecting them.

The `schedule_from` customization point does not use _`get-domain-early`_; it only
looks at `sch` when looking for a sender transform, so that part is fine. But when
connecting a `schedule_from` sender, if we are only looking at the receiver's domain,
then we won't be using the domain of the scheduler as we should.

The `continues_on` algorithm also needs something different. _`get-domain-early`_
does the right thing by returning the domain of the predecessor, but again if we only
use the receiver's domain in `connect`, we won't be using the predecessor's domain
as we should.

The special nature of these two algorithms begs for special handling at `connect`
time. One solution would be to special-case them in _`get-domain-late`_. But there
is another case of interest that suggests a more general solution.


## Sender Consumers

Consider the following code, which schedules some work on a GPU scheduler and
then waits for it to complete:

> ```c++
> namespace se = std::execution;
> gpu_context gpu; // non-standard
> 
> se::sender auto sndr = se::schedule(gpu.get_scheduler()) | se::then([]{ return 42; });
> auto [result]        = se::sync_wait(std::move(sndr));
> ```

Waiting for GPU work to complete requires GPU-specific primitives. How then should
`sync_wait` find such a custom implementation? The sender knows that it will complete
on the GPU, so perhaps `sync_wait` should use ```@_`get-domain-early`_@(sndr)```
to find a customization.

But `sync_wait` knows the environment of the receiver it will use to connect the sender.
It stands to reason that `sync_wait` should use ```@_`=`_@(sndr,
@_`sync-wait-env`_@{...})``` to determine the domain to use. This becomes more obvious
when we consider a possible overload of `sync_wait` that accepts an environment as a
second parameter. Certainly then, when the user has given `sync_wait` an environment, it
should use it to find a customization.

The trouble is that if `sync_wait` uses _`get-domain-late`_ to find a customization,
and if _`get-domain-late`_ only asks the environment for the domain (with special-cases
for `schedule_from` and `continues_on`), then it will not find the custom GPU
implementation necessary.

We have a carve-out in _`get-domain-late`_ for `schedule_from` and `continues_on` senders.
It seems we _also_ need a carve-out for GPU senders ... but that's absurd! If a GPU domain
need a carve-out, then other domains will surely need a carve-out too. We need a generic
solution.

## `get_domain_override`

Senders need to have a way to override the domain of the receiver. With such a mechanism,
we can replace the special-case handling of `schedule_from` and `continues_on` with the
generic solution. The _`get-domain-late`_ helper would first ask the sender if it has
a "late-domain override". If so, that is the domain returned. Otherwise, it queries the
receiver's environment as per usual.

All we need is one new sender attribute query, tentatively called `get_domain_override`. The
`continues_on` and `schedule_from` senders would define this attribute, `continues_on` to
return the domain of the predecessor and `schedule_from` to return the domain of the
scheduler. And for the GPU sender case, the GPU domain can have an early transform that
wraps all senders so that they too define that attribute.


# Summary of Proposed Changes


1. Add a non-forwarding `get_domain_override` query with no default implementation.

2. Give meaning to the `get_scheduler` query by requiring that an operation be started
   on an execution agent associated with the scheduler from the environment of the
   receiver used to create the operation. 

3. Tweak the definitions of _`SCHED-ATTRS`_ and _`SCHED-ENV`_ to avoid forwaring the
   `get_domain` query.

4. Simplify the definition of the exposition-only _`completion-domain`_ helper,
   which no longer needs a configurable default.

5. Specify that `get_domain_override(get_env(schedule_from(sch, sndr)))` returns the
   domain of `sch`.

6. Specify that `get_domain_override(get_env(continues_on(sndr, sch)))` returns the domain
   of `sndr` (if it has one).

7. The expression _`get-domain-late`_`(sndr, env, def)` should be equivalent to:

   1. `get_domain_override(get_env(sndr))` if that expression is well-formed.
   3. Otherwise, `get_domain(env)` if that expression is well-formed.
   4. Otherwise, `get_domain(get_scheduler(env))` if that expression is well-formed.
   5. Otherwise, `def`.

8. Specify that `sync_wait` and `sync_wait_with_variant` use
   ```@_`get-domain-late`_@(sndr, @_`sync-wait-env`_@{}, @_`get-domain-early`_@(sndr))```
   when looking for a customization.


# Implementation Experience

The design presented here is the result of a project to reimplement the GPU scheduler for
NVIDIA's [CCCL](https://github.com/NVIDIA/cccl) library. The old GPU scheduler, which is
currently still being used by [stdexec](https://github.com/NVIDIA/stdexec), uses early
customization exclusively. This requires that every algorithm is reimplemented from
scratch for the GPU, resulting in a large amount of code duplication. Employing late
customization would result in more accurate dispatch and facilitate more code reuse.

With `std::execution`'s current customization scheme, it was impossible for `connect` to
find the GPU customization for the `continues_on` algorithm. Pulling on that thread
revealed the other problems discussed in [Section 2]{#the-problems}. Solving the problems
first required a deeper understanding of the separate roles senders and receivers play in
selecting a domain. That deeper understanding informed the design proposed in this paper.

The newly redesigned GPU scheduler, which uses this proposed design, can be found in
[this pull request](https://github.com/NVIDIA/cccl/pull/4579) for the CCCL repository on
GitHub, and [this other pull request](https://github.com/NVIDIA/stdexec/pull/1542)
implements this proposed design for stdexec, the reference implementation.

# Future Directions

This paper revealed a need for a `sync_wait` overload that accepts an environment
in addition to a sender, like:

> ```c++
> template <sender Sndr, queryable Env>
> auto sync_wait(Sndr&& sndr, Env&& env);
> ```

With such an overload, the user could specify a scheduler corresponding to the current
execution context (maybe `sync_wait` is being called from the GPU!), which would in turn
determine what `sync_wait` implementation gets selected.

The `env` parameter would also give callers a way to parameterize the `sync_wait`
algorithm with an allocator, or a stop token, or perhaps even a different delegation
scheduler.

A separate paper will propose such an overload.

# Proposed Resolution

[To [execution.syn], add the following:]{.ednote}

> > ```c++
> > @<span style="color:blue;font-style:italic">&hellip; as before &hellip;</span>@
> > 
> > namespace std::execution {
> >   // [exec.queries], queries
> >   struct get_domain_t { @_`unspecified`_@ };
> >   @@[```struct get_domain_override_t { @_`unspecified`_@ };```]{.add}@@
> >   struct get_scheduler_t { @_`unspecified`_@ };
> >   struct get_delegation_scheduler_t { @_`unspecified`_@ };
> >   struct get_forward_progress_guarantee_t { @_`unspecified`_@ };
> >   template<class CPO>
> >     struct get_completion_scheduler_t { @_`unspecified`_@ };
> > 
> >   inline constexpr get_domain_t get_domain{};
> >   @[`inline constexpr get_domain_override_t get_domain_override{};`]{.add}@
> >   inline constexpr get_scheduler_t get_scheduler{};
> >   inline constexpr get_delegation_scheduler_t get_delegation_scheduler{};
> >   enum class forward_progress_guarantee;
> >   inline constexpr get_forward_progress_guarantee_t get_forward_progress_guarantee{};
> >   template<class CPO>
> >     constexpr get_completion_scheduler_t<CPO> get_completion_scheduler{};
> > 
> > @<span style="color:blue;font-style:italic">&hellip; as before &hellip;</span>@
> > ```


[After [exec.get.domain]{.sref} add a new subsection [exec.get.domain.override] as
follows:]{.ednote}


::: add

> **[33.5.?] `execution​::get_domain_override` [exec.get.domain.override]**
> 
> [1]{.pnum} `get_domain_override` asks a queryable object for the domain tag to use in
> `connect` and `get_completion_signatures` to find a sender transformation.
> 
> [2]{.pnum} The name `get_domain_override` denotes a query object. For a subexpression
> `env`, `get_domain_override(env)` is expression-equivalent to
> ```@_`MANDATE-NOTHROW`_@(@_`AS-CONST`_@(env).query(get_domain_override))```.

:::


[Change [exec.get.scheduler]{.sref} as follows:]{.ednote}

> [1]{.pnum} `get_scheduler` asks a queryable object for its associated scheduler.
> 
> [2]{.pnum} The name `get_scheduler` denotes a query object. For a subexpression `env`,
>    `get_scheduler(env)` is expression-equivalent to
>    ```@_`MANDATE-NOTHROW`_@(@_`AS-CONST`_@(env).query(get_scheduler))```.
> 
>    _Mandates_: If the expression above is well-formed, its type satisfies `scheduler`.
> 
> [3]{.pnum} `forwarding_query(execution​::​get_scheduler)` is a core constant expression
>    and has value `true`.
> 
> ::: add
> 
> [?]{.pnum} Given subexpressions `sndr` and `rcvr` such that
>    `sender_to<decltype((sndr)), decltype((rcvr))>` is `true` and the expression
>    `get_scheduler(get_env(rcvr))` is well-formed, an operation state that
>    is the result of calling `connect(sndr, rcvr)` shall, if it is started, be
>    started on an execution agent associated with the scheduler
>    `get_scheduler(get_env(rcvr))`.
> 
> :::


[Change [exec.snd.expos#6]{.sref} as follows:]{.ednote}

> [6]{.pnum} For a scheduler `sch` [and queryable object `obj`]{.add},
>    ```@_`SCHED-ATTRS`_@(sch@[`, obj`]{.add}@)``` is an expression `o1` whose type
>    satisfies _`queryable`_ such that[:]{.add} [reformatted as a list.]{.ednote}
>    
>    - [6.1]{.pnum} <code>o1.query(get_completion_scheduler&lt;[Tag]{.rm}
>       [set_value_t]{.add}&gt;)</code> is an expression with the same type and value as
>       `sch`[ where `Tag` is one of `set_value_t` or `set_stopped_t`]{.rm}, [and such
>       that]{.rm}
>    
>    - [6.2]{.pnum} [`o1.query(get_completion_scheduler<Tag>)` is ill-formed for `Tag`
>       other than `set_value_t`,]{.add}
>    
>    - [6.3]{.pnum} `o1.query(get_domain)` is expression-equivalent to
>       `sch.query(get_domain)`[.]{.rm} [if that expression is well-formed, and
>       `default_domain()` otherwise, and]{.add}
>    
>    - [6.4]{.pnum} [For a pack of subexpressions `as` and query object `Q` such that
>       `forwarding_query(Q)` is `true`, `o1.query(Q, as...)` is
>       expression-equivalent to `obj.query(Q, as...)`]{.add}. 
>    
>    [```@_`SCHED-ATTRS`_@(sch)``` is expression-equivalent to
>    ```@_`SCHED-ATTRS`_@(sch, env{})```.]{.add}
>    
> [?]{.pnum} <code><em>SCHED-ENV</em>(sch[, obj]{.add})</code> is an expression `o2` whose
>    type satisfies _`queryable`_ such that[:]{.add}  [reformatted as a list.]{.ednote}
>    
>    - [?.1]{.pnum} `o2.query(get_scheduler)` is a prvalue with the same type and value as
>       `sch`, [and such that]{.rm}
>    
>    - [?.2]{.pnum} `o2.query(get_domain)` is expression-equivalent to
>       `sch.query(get_domain)`[.]{.rm} [if that expression is well-formed, and
>       `default_domain()` otherwise, and]{.add}
>    
>    - [?.3]{.pnum} [For a pack of subexpressions `as` and query object `Q` such that
>       `forwarding_query(Q)` is `true`, `o2.query(Q, as...)` is
>       expression-equivalent to `obj.query(Q, as...)`]{.add}. 
>    
>    [```@_`SCHED-ENV`_@(sch)``` is expression-equivalent to
>    ```@_`SCHED-ENV`_@(sch, env{})```.]{.add}


[Change [exec.snd.expos#8]{.sref} and [exec.snd.expos#9]{.sref} as follows:]{.ednote}

> > ```c++
> > template<@[`class Default = default_domain,`]{.rm}@ class Sndr>
> >   constexpr auto @_`completion-domain`_@(const Sndr& sndr) noexcept;
> > ```
> 
> [8]{.pnum} ```@_`COMPL-DOMAIN`_@(T)``` is the type of the expression
> `get_domain(get_completion_scheduler<T>(get_env(sndr)))`.
>
> [9]{.pnum} _Effects_: If all of the types ```@_`COMPL-DOMAIN`_@(set_value_t)```,
> ```@_`COMPL-DOMAIN`_@(set_error_t)```, and ```@_`COMPL-DOMAIN`_@(set_stopped_t)``` are
> ill-formed, ```@_`completion-domain`_[`<Default>`]{.rm}@(sndr)``` is a
> default-constructed prvalue of type [`Default`]{.rm}[`default_domain`]{.add}. Otherwise,
> if they all share a common type ([meta.trans.other]{.sref}) (ignoring those types that
> are ill-formed), then ```@_`completion-domain`_[`<Default>`]{.rm}@(sndr)``` is a
> default-constructed prvalue of that type. Otherwise,
> ```@_`completion-domain`_[`<Default>`]{.rm}@(sndr)``` is ill-formed.


[Change [exec.snd.expos#14]{.sref} as follows:]{.ednote}

> > ```c++
> > template<class Sndr, class Env@[`, class Default = default_domain`]{.add}@>
> >   constexpr auto @_`get-domain-late`_@(const Sndr& sndr, const Env& env@[`, Default = {}`]{.add}@) noexcept;
> > ```
> 
> 14. Effects: Equivalent to:
>
>     ::: rm
> 
>     1. [If ```@_sender-for_@<Sndr, continues_on_t>``` is `true`, then]{.rm}
> 
>        > ```
>        > @[return Domain();]{.rm}@
>        > ```
>  
>        [where `Domain` is the type of the following expression:]{.rm}
>  
>        > ```
>        > @[`[] {`]{.rm}@
>        >   @[`auto [_, sch, _] = sndr;`]{.rm}@
>        >   @@[```return @_`query-or-default`_@(get_domain, sch, default_domain());```]{.rm}@@
>        > @[`}();`]{.rm}@
>        > ```
>  
>        [[_Note 1_: The `continues_on` algorithm works in tandem with `schedule_from`
>        ([exec.schedule.from]) to give scheduler authors a way to customize both how to
>        transition onto (`continues_on`) and off of (`schedule_from`) a given execution
>        context. Thus, `continues_on` ignores the domain of the predecessor and uses the
>        domain of the destination scheduler to select a customization, a property that is
>        unique to `continues_on`. That is why it is given special treatment here. — _end
>        note_]]{.rm}
> 
>     2. [Otherwise,]{.rm}
> 
>     :::
> 
>        > ```c++
>        > return Domain();
>        > ```
>  
>        where `Domain` is the [type of the]{.add} first of the following expressions that
>        is well-formed[ and whose type is not `void`]{.rm}:
>  
>        * ```get_domain@[`_override`]{.add}@(get_env(sndr))```
>        * [```@_`completion-domain`_@<void>(sndr)```]{.rm}
>        * `get_domain(env)`
>        * `get_domain(get_scheduler(env))`
>        * [`default_domain()`]{.rm}[`Default()`]{.add}


[Change [exec.continues.on#4]{.sref} as follows:]{.ednote}


> [4]{.pnum} The exposition-only class template _`impls-for`_ is specialized for
> `continues_on_t` as follows:
> 
> > ```c++
> > namespace std::execution {
> >   template<>
> >   struct @_`impls-for`_@<continues_on_t> : @_`default-impls`_@ {
> >     static constexpr auto @_`get-attrs`_@ =
> >       [](const auto& data, const auto& child) noexcept -> decltype(auto) {
> >         @@[```return @_`JOIN-ENV`_@(@_`SCHED-ATTRS`_@(data), @_`FWD-ENV`_@(get_env(child)));```]{.rm}@@
> >         @@[```return @_`JOIN-ENV`_@(E, @_`SCHED-ATTRS`_@(data, get_env(child)));```]{.add}@@
> >       };
> >   };
> > }
> > ```
>
> [where `E` is a queryable object such that `E.query(get_domain_override)` is expression-equivalent
> to `get_domain(get_env(child))` if that expression is well-formed, and
> `get_domain(get_completion_scheduler<set_value_t>(get_env(child)))` otherwise.]{.add}


[Change [exec.schedule.from#5]{.sref} as follows:]{.ednote}

> [5]{.pnum} The member ```@_`impls-for`_@<schedule_from_t>​::@_`​get-attrs`_@``` is
> initialized with a callable object equivalent to the following lambda:
>
> > ```c++
> > [](const auto& data, const auto& child) noexcept -> decltype(auto) {
> >   @@[```return @_`JOIN-ENV`_@(@_`SCHED-ATTRS`_@(data), @_`FWD-ENV`_@(get_env(child)));```]{.rm}@@
> >   @@[```return @_`JOIN-ENV`_@(E, @_`SCHED-ATTRS`_@(data, get_env(child)));```]{.add}@@
> > }
> > ```
>
> [where `E` is a queryable object such that `E.query(get_domain_override)` is expression-equivalent
> to ```@_`query-with-default`_@(get_domain, data, default_domain())```.]{.add}


[Change [exec.on#7]{.sref}, as follows:]{.ednote}


> [7]{.pnum} The expression `on.transform_env(out_sndr, env)` has effects equivalent to:
>
> > ```c++
> > auto&& [_, data, _] = out_sndr;
> > if constexpr (scheduler<decltype(data)>) {
> >   @@[```return @_`JOIN-ENV`_@(@_`SCHED-ENV`_@(std::forward_like<OutSndr>(data)), @_`FWD-ENV`_@(std::forward<Env>(env)));```]{.rm}@@
> >   @@[```return @_`SCHED-ENV`_@(std::forward_like<OutSndr>(data), std::forward<Env>(env));```]{.add}@@
> > } else {
> >   return std::forward<Env>(env);
> > }
> > ```


[After [exec.let#4]{.sref}, insert two new paragraphs:]{.ednote}

> [4]{.pnum} Otherwise, the expression ```@_`let-cpo`_@(sndr, f)``` is expression-equivalent to:
> 
> > ```c++
> > transform_sender(@_`get-domain-early`_@(sndr), @_`make-sender`_@(@_`let-cpo`_@, f, sndr))
> > ```
> 
> except that `sndr` is evaluated only once.
> 
> ::: add
> 
> [?]{.pnum} Given a type `C` of the form `completion_signatures<Sigs...>`, let ```@_`SELECT-SIGS`_@(C)```
>    be a pack of those types in `Sigs` with a return type of ```@_`decayed-typeof`_@<@_`set-cpo`_@>```.
> 
> [?]{.pnum} Given a type `Tag` and a pack `Args`, let _`as-sndr2`_ be an alias template such that
>    ```@_`as-sndr2`_@<Tag(Args...)>``` denotes the type ```@_`call-result-t`_@<F,
>    decay_t<Args>&...>```, and let _`as-tuple`_ be an alias template such that
>     ```@_`as-tuple`_@<Tag(Args...)>``` denotes the type
>     ```@_`decayed-tuple`_@<Args...>```.
> 
> :::
>
> [5]{.pnum} The exposition-only class template impls-for ([exec.snd.general]{.sref}) is
> specialized for _`let-cpo`_ as follows:
> 
> > ```c++
> > namespace std::execution {
> >   template<class State, class Rcvr, class... Args>
> >   void @_`let-bind`_@(State& state, Rcvr& rcvr, Args&&... args);      // exposition only
> > 
> >   template<>
> >   struct @_`impls-for`_@<@_`decayed-typeof`_@<@_`let-cpo`_@>> : @_`default-impls`_@ {
> >     @@[```static constexpr auto @_`get-attrs`_@ = @_see below_@;```]{.add}@@
> >     static constexpr auto @_`get-state`_@ = @_see below_@;
> >     static constexpr auto @_`complete`_@ = @_see below_@;
> >   };
> > }
> > ```
>
> ::: add
>
> [?]{.pnum} The member
>    ```@_`impls-for`_@<@_`decayed-typeof`_@<@_`let-cpo`_@>>​::@_`​get-attrs`_@``` is
>    initialized with a callable object equivalent to the following lambda:
>
> > ```c++
> > []<class Fn, class Child>(const Fn& data, const Child& child) noexcept -> decltype(auto) {
> >   return @_`JOIN-ENV`_@(E, @_`FWD-ENV`_@(get_env(child)));
> > }
> > ```
>
> where `E` is a queryable object equivalent to
>
> > ```c++
> > @_`MAKE-ENV`_@(get_domain, common_type_t<@_`early-domain-of-t`_@<@_`as-sndr2`_@<@_`SELECT-SIGS`_@(C)>>...>{})
> > ```
>
> if that expression is well-formed, where `C` is `completion_signatures_of_t<Child>`
> and ```@_`early-domain-of-t`_@<Sndr>``` denotes the type
> ```decltype(@_`get-domain-early`_@(declval<Sndr>()))```. Otherwise, `E`
> is equivalent to `env{}`.
> 
> :::
>
> [Replace [exec.let#8]{.sref} and [exec.let#9]{.sref} as shown below so that
> `let_value(sndr,fn)` and friends propagate the domain from the senders returned from
> `fn`:]{.ednote}
> 
> ::: rm
> 
> [8]{.pnum} [Let `Sigs` be a pack of the arguments to the `completion_signatures`
>    specialization named by ```completion_signatures_of_t<@_`child-type`_@<Sndr>,
>    env_of_t<Rcvr>>```. Let `LetSigs` be a pack of those types in `Sigs` with a return type of
>    ```@_`decayed-typeof`_@<@_`set-cpo`_@>```. Let _`as-tuple`_ be an alias template such that
>    ```@_`as-tuple`_@<Tag(Args...)>``` denotes the type ```@_`decayed-tuple`_@<Args...>```.
>    Then `args_variant_t` denotes the type ```variant<monostate,
>    @_`as-tuple`_@<LetSigs>...>``` except with duplicate types removed.]{.rm}
> 
> [9]{.pnum} [Given a type `Tag` and a pack `Args`, let _`as-sndr2`_ be an alias template
>    such that ```@_`as-sndr2`_@<Tag(Args...)>``` denotes the type
>    ```@_`call-result-t`_@<Fn, decay_t<Args>&...>```. Then `ops2_variant_t` denotes the type
>    ```variant<monostate, connect_result_t<@_`as-sndr2`_@<LetSigs>, receiver2<Rcvr, Env>>...>```
>    except with duplicate types removed.]{.rm}
> 
> :::
> 
> ::: add
> 
> [?]{.pnum} Let `C` be the type named by
>    ```completion_signatures_of_t<@_`child-type`_@<Sndr>, env_of_t<Rcvr>>```. Then
>    `args_variant_t` denotes the type
>    ```variant<monostate, @_`as-tuple`_@<@_`SELECT-SIGS`_@(C)>...>``` except with duplicate types
>    removed, and `ops2_variant_t` denotes the type
>    ```variant<monostate, connect_result_t<@_`as-sndr2`_@<@_`SELECT-SIGS`_@(C)>, receiver2<Rcvr, Env>>...>```
>    except with duplicate types removed.
> 
> :::


[Change [exec.sync.wait#4]{.sref} as follows:]{.ednote}


> [4]{.pnum} The name `this_thread​::​sync_wait` denotes a customization point object. For a
> subexpression `sndr`, let `Sndr` be `decltype((sndr))`. If
> ```sender_in<Sndr, @_`sync-wait-env`_@>```
> is `false`, the expression `this_thread​::​sync_wait(sndr)` is ill-formed. Otherwise, it
> is expression-equivalent to the following, except that `sndr` is evaluated only once:
> 
> > ```c++
> > apply_sender(@_`get-domain-`_[_`early`_]{.rm}[_`late`_]{.add}@(sndr@@[```, @_`sync-wait-env`_@{}, @_`get-domain-early`_@(sndr)```]{.add}@@), sync_wait, sndr)
> > ```
> 
> _Mandates_:
>
> - [4.1]{.pnum} The type ```@_`sync-wait-result-type`_@<Sndr>``` is well-formed.
>
> - [4.2]{.pnum} ```same_as<decltype(@_`e`_@), @_`sync-wait-result-type`_@<Sndr>>``` is
>   `true`, where _`e`_ is the `apply_sender` expression above.
> 

[Change [exec.sync.wait.var#1]{.sref} as follows:]{.ednote}


> [1]{.pnum} The name `this_thread​::​sync_wait_with_variant` denotes a customization point object. For a
> subexpression `sndr`, let `Sndr` be `decltype(into_variant(sndr))`. If
> ```sender_in<Sndr, @_`sync-wait-env`_@>```
> is `false`, the expression `this_thread​::​sync_wait_with_variant(sndr)` is ill-formed. Otherwise, it
> is expression-equivalent to the following, except that `sndr` is evaluated only once:
> 
> > ```c++
> > apply_sender(@_`get-domain-`_[_`early`_]{.rm}[_`late`_]{.add}@(sndr@@[```, @_`sync-wait-env`_@{}, @_`get-domain-early`_@(sndr)```]{.add}@@),
> >              sync_wait_with_variant, sndr)
> > ```
> 
> _Mandates_:
>
> - [1.1]{.pnum} The type ```@_`sync-wait-with-variant-result-type`_@<Sndr>``` is well-formed.
>
> - [1.2]{.pnum} ```same_as<decltype(@_`e`_@), @_`sync-wait-with-variant-result-type`_@<Sndr>>``` is
>   `true`, where _`e`_ is the `apply_sender` expression above.
> 

