---
title: Reconsidering the `std::execution::on` algorithm
subtitle: '`on` <em>second thought</em>'
...


<style>
body { min-width: 50% !important; }
p {text-align:justify}
p.subtitle {
  text-align: center;
  font-weight: bold;
  font-size: 1.4em;
}
li {text-align:justify}
blockquote.note {
	background-color:#E0E0E0;
	padding-left: 15px;
	padding-right: 15px;
	padding-top: 1px;
	padding-bottom: 1px;
}
span.note:before {
  content: "[Note: ";
  font-style: italic;
}
span.note:after {
  content: " -- end note]";
  font-style: italic;
}
span.ednote:before {
  content: "[Editorial note: ";
  font-style: italic;
}
span.ednote:after {
  content: " -- end note]";
  font-style: italic;
}
span.ednote, span.ednote * {
  color:blue !important;
  margin-top: 0em;
  margin-bottom: 0em;
}
ins, ins * {color:#00A000 !important}
del, del * {color:#A00000 !important}
div.ins, div.ins * {
	color:#00A000 !important;
	text-decoration-line: none;
}
div.del, div.del * {
	color:#A00000 !important;
	text-decoration-line: none;
}
dfn {
	font-style: italic;
	font-weight: bold;
}
code:not(sourceCode) {
	white-space: normal;
	font-size: 80% !important;
}
ins > code:not(sourceCode) {
	white-space: normal;
	font-size: 80% !important;
}
div.sourceCode {
	margin-left: 20pt !important;
}
</style>

<div>
<dl>
<dt><strong>Authors:</strong></dt>
<dd><a href="mailto:eric.niebler@gmail.com">Eric Niebler</a></dd>

<dt><strong>Date:</strong></dt>
<dd>February 29, 2024</dd>

<dt><strong>Source:</strong></dt>
<dd><a href="https://github.com/ericniebler/wg21/blob/main/P3175/P3175R0.md">GitHub</a></dd>

<dt><strong>Issue tracking:</strong></dt>
<dd><a href="https://github.com/ericniebler/wg21/issues">GitHub</a></dd>

<dt><strong>Project:</strong></dt>
<dd>ISO/IEC JTC1/SC22/WG21 14882: Programming Language — C++</dd>

<dt><strong>Audience:</strong></dt>
<dd>LEWG</dd>
</dl>
</div>


Synopsis
--------

Usage experience with P2300 has revealed a gap between users'
expectations and the actual behavior of the `std::execution::on` algorithm. This
paper seeks to close that gap by making its behavior less surprising.

Executive Summary
-----------------

Below are the specific changes this paper proposes:

1. Rename the current `std::execution::on` algorithm to `std::execution::start_on`.

2. Rename `std::execution::transfer` to `std::execution::continue_on`

3. Optional: Add a new algorithm `std::execution::on` that, like `start_on`,
    starts a sender on a particular context, but that remembers where execution
    is transitioning _from_. After the sender completes, the `on` algorithm
    transitions _back_ to the starting execution context, giving a scoped,
    there-and-back-again behavior. (Alternative: don't add a new scoped
    `on` algorithm.)

4. Optional: Add a new uncustomizable adaptor `write_env` for writing values
    into the receiver's execution environment, and rename `read` to `read_env`
    ("`read`" being too vague and something of a land-grab). `write_env` is used
    in the implementation of the new `on` algorithm and can simplify the
    specification of the `let_` algorithms. (Alternative: make `write_env`
    exposition-only.)

5. Optional: Add an uncustomizable `unstoppable` adaptor that is a trivial
    application of `write_env`: it sets the current stop token in the receiver's
    environment to a `never_stop_token`. `unstoppable` is used in the
    re-specification of the `schedule_from` algorithm. (Alternative: make
    `unstoppable` exposition-only.)

6. Optional: Generalize the specification for `schedule_from` to take two
    senders instead of a sender and a scheduler, name it `finally`, and make it
    uncustomizable. Specify the default implementation of `schedule_from(sch,
    snd)` as `finally(snd, unstoppable(schedule(sch)))`. (Alternative: keep
    `finally` exposition-only.)

4. Optional: Add a form of `execution::on` that lets you run part of a
    continuation on one scheduler, automatically transitioning back to the
    starting context.

Problem Description
-------------------

If, knowing little about senders and sender algorithms, someone showed you
code such as the following:

```c++
namespace ex = std::execution;

ex::sender auto work1 = ex::just()
                      | ex::transfer(scheduler_A);

ex::sender auto work2 = ex::on(scheduler_B, std::move(work1))
                      | ex::then([] { std::puts("hello world!"); });

ex::sender auto work3 = ex::on(scheduler_C, std::move(work2))

std::this_thread::sync_wait(std::move(work3));
```

... and asked you, which scheduler, `scheduler_A` or `scheduler_B`, is used to
execute the code that prints `"hello world!"`? You might reasonably think the
answer is `scheduler_C`. Your reasoning would go something like this: 

> Well clearly the first thing we execute is `on(scheduler_C, work2)`. I'm
> pretty sure that is going to execute `work2` on `scheduler_C`. The `printf` is
> a part of `work2`, so I'm going to guess that it executes on `scheduler_C`. 

This paper exists because the `on` algorithm as specified in P2300R8 does _not_
print `"hello world!"` from `scheduler_C`. It prints it from `scheduler_A`.
Surprise!

<div style="text-align: center">**_But why?_**</div>

`work2` executes `work1` on `scheduler_B`. `work1` then rather rudely
transitions to `scheduler_A` and doesn't transition back. The `on` algorithm is
cool with that. It just happily runs its continuation inline, _still on
`scheduler_A`_, which is where `"hello world!"` is printed from.

If there was more work tacked onto the end of `work3`, it too would execute on
`scheduler_A`.

### User expectations

The authors of P2300 have witnessed this confusion in the wild. And when this
author has asked his programmer friends about the code above, every single one
said they expected behavior different from what is specified. This is very
concerning.

However, if we change some of the algorithm names, people are less likely to
make faulty assumptions about their behavior. Consider the above code with
different names:

```c++
namespace ex = std::execution;

ex::sender auto work1 = ex::just()
                      | ex::continue_on(scheduler_A);

ex::sender auto work2 = ex::start_on(scheduler_B, std::move(work1))
                      | ex::then([] { std::puts("hello world!"); });

ex::sender auto work3 = ex::start_on(scheduler_C, std::move(work2))

std::this_thread::sync_wait(std::move(work3));
```

Now the behavior is a little more clear. The names `start_on` and `continue_on`
both suggest a one-way execution context transition, which matches their
specified behavior.

### Filling the gap

`on` fooled people into thinking it was a there-and-back-again algorithm.
We propose to fix that by renaming it to `start_on`. But what of the people
who _want_ a there-and-back-again algorithm?

Asynchronous work is better encapsulated when it completes on the same execution
context that it started on. People are surprised, and reasonably so, if they
`co_await` a task from a CPU thread pool and get resumed on, say, an OS timer
thread. Yikes!

We have an opportunity to give the users of P2300 what they _thought_ they
were already getting, and now the right name is available: **`on`**.

We propose to add a new algorithm, called `on`, that remembers where execution
came from and automatically transitions back there. Its operational semantics
can be easily expressed in terms of the existing P2300 algorithms. It is
approximately the following:

```c++
template <ex::scheduler Sched, ex::sender Sndr>
sender auto on(Sched sched, Sndr sndr) {
  return ex::read(ex::get_scheduler)
       | ex::let_value([=](auto old_sched) {
           return ex::start_on(sched, sndr)
                | ex::continue_on(old_sched);
         });
}
```

### One step further?

Once we recast `on` as a there-and-back-again algorithm, it opens up the
possibility of another there-and-back-again algorithm, one that executes a part
of a _continuation_ on a given scheduler. Consider the following code, where
`async_read_file` and `async_write_file` are functions that return senders
(description after the break):

```c++
ex::sender auto work = async_read_file()
                     | ex::on(cpu_pool, ex::then(crunch_numbers))
                     | ex::let_value([](auto numbers) {
                         return async_write_file(numbers);
                       });
```

Here, we read a file and then send it to an `on` sender. This would be a
different overload of `on`, one that takes a sender, a scheduler, and a
continuation. It saves the result of the sender, transitions to the given
scheduler, and then forwards the results to the continuation,
`then(crunk_numbers)`. After that, it returns to the previous execution
context where it executes the `async_write_file(numbers)` sender.

The above would be roughly equivalent to:

```c++
ex::sender auto work = async_read_file()
                     | ex::let_value([=](auto numbers) {
                         ex::sender auto work = ex::just(numbers)
                                              | ex::then(crunch_numbers);
                         return ex::on(cpu_pool, work)
                              | ex::let_value([=](auto numbers) {
                                  return async_write_file(numbers);
                                });
                       });
```

This form of `on` would make it easy to, in the middle of a pipeline,
pop over to another execution context to do a bit of work and then
automatically pop back when it is done.

Implementation Experience
-------------------------

The perennial question: has it been implemented? It has been implemented in
stdexec for over a year, modulo the fact that `stdexec::on` has the behavior as
specified in P2300R8, and a new algorithm `exec::on` has the
there-and-back-again behavior proposed in this paper.

Design Considerations
---------------------

### Do we really have to rename the `transform` algorithm?

We don't! Within sender expressions, `work | transfer(over_there)` reads
a bit nicer than `work | continue_on(over_there)`, and taken in isolation
the name change is strictly for the worse.

However, the symmetry of the three operations:

* `start_on`
* `continue_on`
* `on`

... encourages developers to infer their semantics correctly. The first two are
one-way transitions before and after a piece of work, respectively; the third
book-ends work with transitions. In the author's opinion, this consideration
outweighs the other.

### Do we need the additional form of `on`?

We don't! Users can build it themselves from the other pieces of P2300 that will
ship in C++26. But the extra overload makes it much simpler for developers to
write well-behaved asynchronous operations that complete on the same execution
contexts they started on, which is why it is included here.


Questions for LEWG's consideration
----------------------------------

The author would like LEWG's feedback on the following two questions:

1. If `on` is renamed `start_on`, do we also want to rename `transfer` to
    `continue_on`?

2. If `on` is renamed `start_on`, do we want to add a new algorithm named `on`
    that book-ends a piece of work with transitions to and from a scheduler?

3. If we want the new scoped form of `on`, do we want to add the `on(sndr,
    sched, continuation)` algorithm overload to permit scoped execution of
    continuations?

4. Do we want to make the `write_env` adaptor exposition-only, or make it
    public?

5. Do we want to make the `unstoppable` adaptor exposition-only, or make it
    public?

6. Do we want to make the `finally` algorithm an exposition-only detail of the
    `schedule_from` algorithm, or make it public?


Proposed Wording
----------------

<span class="ednote">The wording in this section is based on
[P2300R8](https://wg21.link/P2300R8) with the addition of
[P8255R1](https://wg21.link/P2855R1).</span>


Change [exec.syn] as follows:

<blockquote><pre style="white-space: pre-wrap; font-size: 85%; text-align: left;">
  inline constexpr <em>unspecified</em> read<ins>_env</ins>{};
...

  struct <ins>start_</ins>on_t;
  struct <del>transfer_t</del><ins>continue_on_t</ins>;
  <ins>struct on_t;</ins>
  struct schedule_from_t;
...

  <ins>inline constexpr <em>unspecified</em> write_env{};</ins>
  <ins>inline constexpr <em>unspecified</em> unstoppable{};</ins>
  inline constexpr <ins>start_</ins>on_t <ins>start_</ins>on{};</ins>
  inline constexpr <del>transfer_t transfer</del><ins>continue_on_t continue_on</ins>{};
  <ins>inline constexpr on_t on{};</ins>
  <ins>inline constexpr <em>unspecified</em> finally{};</ins>
  inline constexpr schedule_from_t schedule_from{};
</pre></blockquote>


Change subsection "`execution::read` [exec.read]" to
"`execution::read_env` [exec.read.env]", and within that subsection,
replace every instance of "`read`" with "`read_env`".

After [exec.adapt.objects], add a new subsection "`execution::write_env`
[exec.write.env]" as follows:

<div class="ins">
<blockquote>
#### `execution::write_env` <b>[exec.write.env]</b>

1. `write_env` is a sender adaptor that connects its inner sender with a
    receiver that has the execution environment of the outer receiver joined
    with a specified execution environment.

2. `write_env` is a customization point object. For some subexpressions `sndr`
    and `env`, if `decltype((sndr))` does not satisfy `sender` or if
    `decltype((env))` does not satisfy `queryable`, the expression
    `write_env(sndr, env)` is ill-formed. Otherwise, it is expression-equivalent
    to <code><i>make-sender</i>(write_env, env, sndr)</code>.

3. The exposition-only class template <code><i>impls-for</i></code> ([exec.snd.general])
    is specialized for `write_env` as follows:

    <pre style="white-space: pre-wrap; font-size: 85%; text-align: left;">
    template&lt;>
    struct <i>impls-for</i>&lt;tag_t&lt;write_env>> : <i>default-impls</i> {
      static constexpr auto <em>get-env</em> =
        [](auto, const auto& state, const auto& rcvr) noexcept {
          return <em>JOIN-ENV</em>(state, get_env(rcvr));
        };
    };
    </pre>
</blockquote>
</div>

After [exec.write.env], add a new subsection "`execution::unstoppable`
[exec.unstoppable]" as follows:

<div class="ins">
<blockquote>
#### `execution::unstoppable` <b>[exec.unstoppable]</b>

1. `unstoppable` is a sender adaptor that connects its inner sender with a
    receiver that has the execution environment of the outer receiver but
    with a `never_stop_token` as the value of the `get_stop_token` query.

2. For a subexpression `sndr`, `unstoppable(sndr)` is expression equivalent to
    <code>write_env(sndr, <em>MAKE-ENV</em>(get_stop_token,
    never_stop_token{}))</code>.
</blockquote>
</div>


Change subsection "`execution::on` [exec.on]" to
"`execution::start_on` [exec.start.on]", and within that subsection,
replace every instance of "`on`" with "`start_on`" and every instance of
"`on_t`" with "`start_on_t`".

Change subsection "`execution::transfer` [exec.transfer]" to
"`execution::continue_on` [exec.complete.on]", and within that subsection,
replace every instance of "`transfer`" with "`continue_on`" and every instance of
"`transfer_t`" with "`continue_on_t`".

Change subsection "`execution::schedule_from` [exec.schedule.from]" to
"`execution::finally` [exec.finally]", change every instance of
"`schedule_from`" to "`finally`" and "`schedule_from_t`" to "`tag_t<finally>`",
and change the subsection as follows:

<blockquote>
#### `execution::finally` <b>[exec.finally]</b>

<span class="ednote">Replace paragraphs 1-3 with the following:</span>

<div class="ins">

1. `finally` is a sender adaptor that starts one sender unconditionally after
    another sender completes. If the second sender completes successfully, the
    `finally` sender completes with the async results of the first sender.
    If the second sender completes with error or stopped, the async results
    of the first sender are discarded, and the `finally` sender completes
    with the async results of the second sender. <span class="note">It is
    similar in spirit to the `try`/`finally` control structure of some
    languages.</span>

2. The name `finally` denotes a customization point object. For some
    subexpressions `try_sndr` and `finally_sndr`, if `try_sndr` or
    `finally_sndr` do not satisfy `sender`, the expression `finally(try_sndr,
    finally_sndr)` is ill-formed; otherwise, it is expression-equivalent to
    <code><i>make-sender</i>(finally, {}, try_sndr, finally_sndr)</code>.

3. Let `CS` be a specialization of `completion_signatures` whose template
    parameters are the pack `Sigs`. Let <code><em>VALID-FINALLY</em>(CS)</code>
    be `true` if and only if there is no type in `Sigs` of the form
    `set_value_t(Ts...)` for which `sizeof...(Ts)` is greater than `0`. Let `F`
    be `decltype((finally_sndr))`. If `sender_in<F>` is `true` and
    <code><em>VALID-FINALLY</em>(completion_signatures_of_t&lt;F>)</code> is
    `false`, the program is ill-formed.

</div>

4. The exposition-only class template <code><i>impls-for</i></code>
    ([exec.snd.general]) is specialized for `finally` as follows:

      <pre style="white-space: pre-wrap; font-size: 85%; text-align: left;">
      template&lt;>
      struct <i>impls-for</i>&lt;tag_t&lt;finally>> : <i>default-impls</i> {
        static constexpr auto <i>get-attrs</i> = <i>see below</i>;
        static constexpr auto <i>get-state</i> = <i>see below</i>;
        static constexpr auto <i>complete</i> = <i>see below</i>;
      };
      </pre>

    1. The member <code><i>impls-for</i>&lt;tag_t&lt;finally>>::<i>get-attrs</i></code> is initialized
        with a callable object equivalent to the following lambda:

          <pre style="white-space: pre-wrap; font-size: 85%; text-align: left;"><div class="del">
          [](const auto& data, const auto& child) noexcept -> decltype(auto) {
            return <i>JOIN-ENV</i>(<i>SCHED-ATTRS</i>(data), <i>FWD-ENV</i>(get_env(child)));
          }</div><div class="ins">
          [](auto, const auto& tsndr, const auto& fsndr) noexcept -> decltype(auto) {
            return <i>JOIN-ENV</i>(<i>FWD-ENV</i>(get_env(fsndr)), <i>FWD-ENV</i>(get_env(tsndr)));
          }</div></pre>

    2. The member <code><i>impls-for</i>&lt;tag_t&lt;finally>>::<i>get-state</i></code> is initialized
        with a callable object equivalent to the following lambda:

          <pre style="white-space: pre-wrap; font-size: 85%; text-align: left;">
          []&lt;class Sndr, class Rcvr>(Sndr&& sndr, Rcvr& rcvr)
              requires sender_in&lt;<i>child-type</i>&lt;Sndr<ins>, 0</ins>>, env_of_t&lt;Rcvr>> <ins>&&</ins>
                <ins>sender_in&lt;<i>child-type</i>&lt;Sndr<ins>, 1</ins>>, env_of_t&lt;Rcvr>> &&</ins>
                <ins><em>VALID-FINALLY</em>(completion_signatures_of_t&lt;<i>child-type</i>&lt;Sndr<ins>, 1</ins>>, env_of_t&lt;Rcvr>>)</ins> {
            return apply(
              <del>[&]&lt;class Sch, class Child>(auto, Sch sch, Child&& child)</del>
              <ins>[&]&lt;class TSndr, class FSndr>(auto, auto, TSndr&& tsndr, FSndr&& fsndr)</ins> {
                using <i>variant-type</i> = <i>see below</i>;
                using <i>receiver-type</i> = <i>see below</i>;
                using <i>operation-type</i> = connect_result_t&lt;<del>schedule_result_t&lt;Sch></del><ins>FSndr</ins>, <i>receiver-type</i>>;

                struct <i>state-type</i> {
                  Rcvr& <i>rcvr</i>;
                  <i>variant-type</i> <i>async-result</i>;
                  <i>operation-type</i> <i>op-state</i>;

                  explicit <i>state-type</i>(<del>Sch sch</del><ins>FSndr&& fsndr</ins>, Rcvr& rcvr)
                    : <i>rcvr</i>(rcvr)
                    , <i>op-state</i>(connect(<del>schedule(sch)</del><ins>std::forward&lt;FSndr>(fsndr)</ins>, 
                                       <i>receiver-type</i>{<i></i>{}, this})) {}
                };

                return <i>state-type</i>{<del>sch</del><ins>std::forward&lt;FSndr>(fsndr)</ins>, rcvr};
              },
              std::forward&lt;Sndr>(sndr));
          }
          </pre>

          1. The local class <i>`state-type`</i> is a structural type.

          2. Let `Sigs` be a pack of the arguments to the
              `completion_signatures` specialization named by
              <code>completion_signatures_of_t&lt;<del>Child</del><ins>TSndr</ins>,
              env_of_t&lt;Rcvr>></code>. Let <i>`as-tuple`</i> be an alias
              template that transforms a completion signature `Tag(Args...)`
              into the `tuple` specialization <code><i>decayed-tuple</i>&lt;Tag,
              Args`...`></code>. Then <i>`variant-type`</i> denotes the type
              <code>variant&lt;monostate, <i>as-tuple</i>&lt;Sigs>`...`></code>,
              except with duplicate types removed.

          3. Let <i>`receiver-type`</i> denote the following class:

              <pre style="white-space: pre-wrap; font-size: 85%; text-align: left;">
              struct <i>receiver-type</i> : receiver_adaptor&lt;<i>receiver-type</i>> {
                <i>state-type</i>* <i>state</i>; <em>// exposition only</em>

                Rcvr&& base() && noexcept { return std::move(<i>state</i>-><i>rcvr</i>); }
                const Rcvr& base() const & noexcept { return <i>state</i>-><i>rcvr</i>; }

                void set_value() && noexcept {
                  visit(
                    [this]&lt;class Tuple>(Tuple& result) noexcept -> void {
                      if constexpr (!same_as&lt;monostate, Tuple>) {
                        auto& [tag, ...args] = result;
                        tag(std::move(<i>state</i>-><i>rcvr</i>), std::move(args)...);
                      }
                    },
                    <i>state</i>-><i>async-result</i>);
                }
              };
              </pre>

    3. The member <code><i>impls-for</i>&lt;tag_t&lt;finally>>::<i>complete</i></code>
        is initialized with a callable object equivalent to the following lambda:

        <pre style="white-space: pre-wrap; font-size: 85%; text-align: left;">
        []&lt;class Tag, class... Args>(auto, auto& state, auto& rcvr, Tag, Args&&... args) noexcept -> void {
          using result_t = <i>decayed-tuple</i>&lt;Tag, Args...>;
          constexpr bool nothrow = is_nothrow_constructible_v&lt;result_t, Tag, Args...>;

          <i>TRY-EVAL</i>(std::move(rcvr), [&]() noexcept(nothrow) {
            state.<i>async-result</i>.template emplace&lt;result_t>(Tag(), std::forward&lt;Args>(args)...);
          }());

          if (state.<i>async-result</i>.valueless_by_exception())
            return;
          if (state.<i>async-result</i>.index() == 0)
            return;

          start(state.<i>op-state</i>);
        };
        </pre>

<span class="ednote">Remove paragraph 5, which is about the requirements on customizations
of the algorithm; `finally` cannot be customized.</span>

</blockquote>

Insert a new subsection "`execution::schedule_from` [exec.schedule.from]" as follows:

<blockquote>
#### `execution::schedule_from` <b>[exec.schedule.from]</b>

<span class="ednote">These three paragraphs are taken unchanged from P2300R8.</span>

1. `schedule_from` schedules work dependent on the completion of a sender onto a
    scheduler's associated execution resource. <span
    class="wg21note">`schedule_from` is not meant to be used in user code; it is
    used in the implementation of `transfer`.</span>

2. The name `schedule_from` denotes a customization point object. For some
    subexpressions `sch` and `sndr`, let `Sch` be `decltype((sch))` and `Sndr` be
    `decltype((sndr))`. If `Sch` does not satisfy `scheduler`, or `Sndr` does not
    satisfy `sender`, `schedule_from` is ill-formed.

3. Otherwise, the expression `schedule_from(sch, sndr)` is expression-equivalent
    to:

    <pre style="white-space: pre-wrap; font-size: 85%; text-align: left;">
    transform_sender(
      <i>query-or-default</i>(get_domain, sch, default_domain()),
      <i>make-sender</i>(schedule_from, sch, sndr));
    </pre>

<div class="ins">

4. The exposition-only class template <code><i>impls-for</i></code> is specialized
    for `schedule_from_t` as follows:

    <pre style="white-space: pre-wrap; font-size: 85%; text-align: left;">
    template&lt;>
    struct <i>impls-for</i>&lt;schedule_from_t> : <i>default-impls</i> {
      static constexpr auto get_attrs =
        [](const auto& data, const auto& child) noexcept -> decltype(auto) {
          return <i>JOIN-ENV</i>(<i>SCHED-ATTRS</i>(data), <i>FWD-ENV</i>(get_env(child)));
        };
    };
    </pre>

5. Let `sndr` and `env` be subexpressions such that `Sndr` is `decltype((sndr))`. If
    <code><i>sender-for</i>&lt;Sndr, schedule_from_t></code> is `false`, then the expression
    `schedule_from.transform_sender(sndr, env)` is ill-formed; otherwise, it
    is equal to:

    <pre style="white-space: pre-wrap; font-size: 85%; text-align: left;">
    auto&& [tag, sch, child] = sndr;
    return finally(std::forward_like&lt;Sndr>(child),
                   unstoppable(schedule(std::forward_like&lt;Sndr>(sch))));
    </pre>

    <span class="wg21note">This causes the `schedule_from(sch, sndr)` sender to become
    `finally(sndr, unstoppable(schedule(sch)))` when it is connected with a receiver with an
    execution domain that does not customize `schedule_from`.</span>
</div>

<span class="ednote">The following paragraph is taken unchanged from P2300R8.</span>

6. Let the subexpression `out_sndr` denote the result of the invocation
    `schedule_from(sch, sndr)` or an
    object copied or moved from such, and let the subexpression `rcvr` denote a
    receiver such that the expression `connect(out_sndr, rcvr)` is well-formed.
    The expression `connect(out_sndr, rcvr)` has undefined behavior unless it
    creates an asynchronous operation ([async.ops]) that, when started:

      - eventually completes on an execution agent belonging to the associated
        execution resource of `sch`, and

      - completes with the same async result as `sndr`.
</blockquote>


Insert a new subsection "`execution::on` [exec.on]" as follows:

<div class="ins">
<blockquote>
1. The `on` sender adaptor has two forms:

    - one that starts a sender `sndr` on an execution agent belonging to a particular
      scheduler's associated execution resource and that restores execution to the
      starting execution resource when the sender completes, and

    - one that, upon completion of a sender `sndr`, transfers execution to an execution
      agent belonging to a particular scheduler's associated execution resource,
      then executes a sender adaptor closure with the async results of the sender,
      and that then transfers execution back to the execution resource `sndr`
      completed on.

2. The name `on` denotes a customization point object. For some subexpressions
    `sch` and `sndr`, if `decltype((sch))` does not satisfy `scheduler`, or
    `decltype((sndr))` does not satisfy `sender`, `on(sch, sndr)` is ill-formed.

3. Otherwise, the expression `on(sch, sndr)` is expression-equivalent to:

    <pre style="white-space: pre-wrap; font-size: 85%; text-align: left;">
    transform_sender(
      <em>query-or-default</em>(get_domain, sch, default_domain()),
      <em>make-sender</em>(on, sch, sndr));
    </pre>

4. For a subexpression `closure`, if `decltype((closure))` is not a sender
    adaptor closure object ([exec.adapt.objects]), the expression `on(sndr, sch,
    closure)` is ill-formed; otherwise, it is equivalent to:

    <pre style="white-space: pre-wrap; font-size: 85%; text-align: left;">
    transform_sender(
      <em>get-domain-early</em>(sndr),
      <em>make-sender</em>(on, pair{sch, closure}, sndr));
    </pre>

4. Let `out_sndr` and `env` be subexpressions such that `OutSndr` is
    `decltype((out_sndr))`. If <code><em>sender-for</em>&lt;OutSndr,
    on_t></code> is `false`, then the expressions `on.transform_env(out_sndr,
    env)` and `on.transform_sender(out_sndr, env)` are ill-formed; otherwise:

    1. Let *`none-such`* be an unspecified empty class type and
        let *`not-a-sender`* be the exposition-only type:

        <pre style="white-space: pre-wrap; font-size: 85%; text-align: left;">
        struct <em>not-a-sender</em> {
          using sender_concept = sender_t;

          auto get_completion_signatures(auto&&) const {
            return <em>see below</em>;
          }
        };
        </pre>

        ... where the member function `get_completion_signatures` returns an
        object of a type that is not a specialization of the
        `completion_signatures` class template.

    2. `on.transform_env(out_sndr, env)` is equivalent to:

        <pre style="white-space: pre-wrap; font-size: 85%; text-align: left;">
        auto&& [ign1, data, ign2] = out_sndr;
        if constexpr (scheduler&lt;decltype(data)>) {
          return <em>JOIN-ENV</em>(<em>SCHED-ENV</em>(data), <em>FWD-ENV</em>(env));
        } else {
          using Env = decltype((env));
          return static_cast&lt;remove_rvalue_reference_t&lt;Env>>(std::forward&lt;Env>(env));
        }
        </pre>

    3. `on.transform_sender(out_sndr, env)` is equivalent to:

        <pre style="white-space: pre-wrap; font-size: 85%; text-align: left;">
        auto&& [ign, data, sndr] = out_sndr;
        if constexpr (scheduler&lt;decltype(data)>) {
          auto old_sch =
            <em>query-with-default</em>(get_scheduler, env, <em>none-such</em>{});

          if constexpr (same_as&lt;decltype(old_sch), <em>none-such</em>>) {
            return <em>not-a-sender</em>{};
          } else {
            return start_on(std::forward_like&lt;OutSndr>(data), std::forward_like&lt;OutSndr>(sndr))
                 | continue_on(std::move(old_sch));
          }
        } else {
          auto&& [sch, closure] = std::forward_like&lt;OutSndr>(data);
          auto old_sch = <em>query-with-default</em>(
            get_completion_scheduler&lt;set_value_t>,
            get_env(sndr),
            <em>query-with-default</em>(get_scheduler, env, <em>none-such</em>{}));

          if constexpr (same_as&lt;decltype(old_sch), <em>none-such</em>>) {
            return <em>not-a-sender</em>{};
          } else {
            return std::forward_like&lt;OutSndr>(sndr)
                 | <em>write-env</em>(<em>SCHED-ENV</em>(old_sch));
                 | continue_on(sch)
                 | std::forward_like&lt;OutSndr>(closure)
                 | continue_on(old_sch)
                 | <em>write-env</em>(<em>SCHED-ENV</em>(sch));
          }
        }
        </pre>

    4. <em>Recommended practice:</em> Implementations should use the return type
        of <code><em>not-a-sender</em>::get_completion_signatures</code> to
        inform users that their usage of `on` is incorrect because there is no
        available scheduler onto which to restore execution.

</blockquote>
</div>

<span class="ednote">The following changes to the `let_*` algorithms are not
strictly necessary; they are simplifications made possible by the addition of
the `write_env` adaptor above.</span>

Remove [exec.let]p5.1, which defines an exposition-only class *`receiver2`*.

Change [exec.let]p5.2.2 as follows:
<blockquote>

2. Let *`as-sndr2`* be an alias template such that
   <code><em>as-sndr2</em>&lt;Tag(Args`...`)></code> denotes the type
   <code><ins><em>call-result-t</em>&lt;tag_t&lt;write_env>,</ins> call-result-t&lt;Fn, decay_t&lt;Args>&`...`>&ZeroWidthSpace;<ins>, Env></ins></code>. Then
   *`ops2-variant-type`* denotes the type
   <code>variant&lt;monostate, connect_result_t&lt;&ZeroWidthSpace;<em>as-sndr2</em>&lt;&ZeroWidthSpace;LetSigs&ZeroWidthSpace;>,
   <del><em>receiver2</em>&lt;</del>Rcvr<del>, Env></del>>`...`></code>.
</blockquote>

Change [exec.let]p5.3 as follows:

<blockquote>

3. The exposition-only function template *`let-bind`* is <del>equal to</del><ins>as follows</ins>:

    <pre style="white-space: pre-wrap; font-size: 85%; text-align: left;">
    <ins>template&lt;class State, class Rcvr, class... Args></ins>
    <ins>void <i>let-bind</i>(State& state, Rcvr& rcvr, Args&&... args) {</ins>
      auto& args = state.args.emplace&lt;<em>decayed-tuple</em>&lt;Args...>>(std::forward&lt;Args>(args)...);
      auto sndr2 = <ins>write_env(</ins>apply(std::move(state.fn), args)<ins>, std::move(state.env)</ins>); <ins><em>// see [exec.adapt.general]</em></ins>
      <del>auto rcvr2 = receiver2{std::move(rcvr), std::move(state.env)};</del>
      auto mkop2 = [&] { return connect(std::move(sndr2), std::move(rcvr<del>2</del>)); };
      auto& op2 = state.ops2.emplace&lt;decltype(mkop2())>(<em>emplace-from</em>{mkop2});
      start(op2);
    <ins>}</ins>
    </pre>
</blockquote>


Acknowlegments
--------------

I'd like to thank my dog, Luna.
